Sorry, Leandro. Okay, so I will start.
But first, let me introduce myself. Uh,
my name is Alexander Julie and uh, so
you can call me Alex just for
simplicity. And in Oro at Oro, I act in
following roles as a senior software
engineer also on some of the projects
act as a project lead and also as a as a
trainer. Uh so I'm from Ukraine uh and
I've been working with OR for around six
u six six years.
Um so there are a couple of uh links uh
related to myself. So feel free to check
them if you would like. Uh so in this uh
orcommerce we have Orocommerce uh
technical training and in this training
or in this course
uh the idea is uh to understand uh
Oracle how orcommerce application
functions uh some of each uh technical
features uh some of uh best practices
which we uh um faced with and recommend
to follow. uh also I will uh describe uh
points of uh
extendability and how uh application
could be uh customized.
Uh the process itself it will take us uh
uh 4 days. Uh within it we will uh each
day we will uh have up to uh 6 hours. Uh
one second I will admit uh uh 6 hours
per day. Up to six hours per day. Yep.
And uh it will be mostly uh functional
topics though we will also cover some
technical details as well. Uh after each
uh uh topic we will have questions and
answers uh uh session. Uh and this is
mostly for uh some immediate uh
questions uh that you have. Uh for that
we will use uh I recommend to use either
chat or you can unmute yourself and uh
uh ask uh questions uh
uh by voice and uh so uh at the end of
each uh uh session of each day I will
also share those slides which we covered
uh during the day and they will be
shared via email with you.
Uh so we have um a oral community uh
slack and uh please feel free to use it
if you have uh uh some questions not
strictly related to the topic but uh
other things you would like to know
about uh Oro clarify about commerce or
CRM and so on
okay now let's check what we have uh on
our plate related to uh schedule
for this course. So as I mentioned we
will have uh four days and within day
one um today we will uh start with the
storefront and topics such topics
storefront and websites uh we will check
uh how theme uh of the uh storefront
looks like how it could be u changed
using layouts. Um then we will switch to
u
uh customer entities uh products and
finish with the master catalog u master
catalog
the place where all uh uh products are
uh categorized
and uh on the second day uh we will uh
continue our training with the web
catalog uh with the pricing topic and
promotion and discounts.
Then day uh three will be uh related to
inventory taxes uh shopping lists uh
request for quotes
uh check out process and uh finally
having like orders uh placing the
orders. So we will check how order looks
like and how uh it could be uh used uh
for your needs. And uh the fourth uh day
will be related to shipping and payment
methods uh which are available in a
storefront and how to uh to set them up.
And then uh the the next
uh part of uh for today will be devoted
to uh CRM uh CRM features u mostly CRM
features of uh Orocommerce. Uh these are
accounts uh contacts uh lead
opportunities and u different types we
have plenty of them uh different uh uh
of activities that could be performed
over uh CRM entities.
Okay. Uh so let's start with the uh day
one uh topics and the the first topic is
storefront and websites.
Okay, let me open related uh slides uh
and we'll start
uh by the way so if you have uh like
while I will be describing some of the
topics if you have already some
questions uh you can uh post them in
chat in this meeting and uh yeah and
after the topic we will uh then we will
cover them uh on Q&A session
okay let's uh start with the storefront
and website. So uh or commerce
application it uh contains of two uh
parts uh one part is a back office uh
and this is a place uh okay one part
part this is a back office and another
part this is a storefront
uh back office uh this is a place uh
where merchants operate their business u
using online and offline sales uh so
simply u mostly the administrators or
sales representatives. These are the
persons who are um interacting with the
back office uh setting up required
relations uh filling uh required
configuration uh for the application and
u yeah then u
all those basically all those settings
and all those configurations they are uh
then the main idea is to be used uh on a
storefront uh during purchase process
and this part is uh available for
limited amount of people u
I'd say it is uh fully well protected
and we will uh uh cover what kind of
protection is meant uh uh for the back
office uh in the while talking about
back office uh uh for the back office
functionality matters more than
performance uh because Um this is the
place where you uh set up different uh
so actually this
back office operates with large amount
of uh data and you need to set it up
properly. Uh some computations take
place. Uh so uh how it uh functions uh
it matters more than uh how quickly the
requests are uh processed.
uh when you will be checking
documentation for instance of uh or
commerce uh sometimes uh it is also back
office is also referred as a management
console uh or as a back end so these are
uh the same terms so I've mentioned one
part uh this is back office uh of
automous application where you have you
are setting up um and uh another part
this is a storefront actually this is a
place where uh buyers uh where your
users uh um log in and uh purchase uh
purchase some products.
Uh this is available for everybody. So
uh either registered users so-called
buyers uh can interact with the
storefront and also guest users uh um
anonymous uh users can also um
go through uh sales process on a
storefront.
Uh there is a configuration how to uh
set up uh and define whether storefront
is available for everyone or it is
available only for registered users. And
uh the the second thing is uh the next
thing is that uh it is partially
protected. And the partially uh I mean
that um uh we do have u uh an ability to
uh specify different provisions for for
different types of users. But on the
other hand u guest users uh are also um
available to access storefront. That's
why um we call it partially protected uh
part of the application and uh in
storefront performance uh matters more
than uh functionality. So the
interaction uh should be uh fast for
better user experience. Uh yeah and
that's the person uh that's the uh the
idea why performance uh is more
important than uh functionality. And
sometimes in documentation uh storefront
is named as a front end uh part of
application. Actually let me demonstrate
u the difference and how it looks. Uh so
this is uh uh Orocommerce application
and uh with that uh uh so without any
URL uh prefix uh right now
I am navigating a website and uh this is
uh uh a storefront
uh as I mentioned storefront uh
could be
accessed by um guest users or registered
users. Uh yeah, that's the entry point
which uh then identifies uh uh or logs
in users to the storefront. And on the
other hand side uh if I uh open the same
URL the same uh URL but at admin
uh prefix um
um right now I have um I was already
logged in but let me log out just to you
to demonstrate. So uh so while
navigating to admin
a user is landed to u to the login page
for the back office and uh logging into
the back office
I'm actually landed to it and you may uh
see that I will start a consumers
second
uh for the application. So uh with that
I have logged into the back office
and you may uh see the difference uh
first of all in theme uh so it
difference u while uh storefront has
different colors right and uh uh back
office is this white and gray uh colors
uh uh no special styles and different uh
sections
which gives an ability to configure uh
the application. We will go over them uh
during uh our training.
Okay, let's continue. So this is the
difference and how they looks like
uh on this uh uh picture.
It demonstrates actually the difference
between back office and storefront and
mostly uh how the data flows uh between
both uh parts. So uh back office this is
the place where we configure application
and it has full control over those parts
which are uh in their behavior on the
storefront. Uh and uh while we have some
interaction with the
with the storefront, user goes to the uh
to the listing page, add some products
to the shopping list, uh goes and
purchases them. Uh we have like u this
interaction. Then the data flows uh from
storefront uh to the back office and uh
reflected there for uh
further processing by the sales
representative and we have this uh kind
of separation between uh the roles uh
who are acting on both uh ends of
application.
So in the back office we have like
administrators who administrates. Uh we
have uh different uh the ability to set
up roles uh for those users uh uh for
the both uh back office users and uh uh
storefront users. have the place for
configuring um different u application
on different levels and manage those
entities which are created by the uh
front users. Uh so whenever order is
created then it is reflected in a in a
back office office for for next uh
operations with it and of course yeah
back office also gives the ability to um
it collects data and then um there is an
ability to uh prepare some reports over
that data.
And uh talking about storefront um um so
user purchases items go through the
checkout and it is available for uh
anonymous users and u as well.
Uh
if we are talking about storefront um uh
it was um uh de developed um using uh
following packages uh which are
each of them were built on top of
another one and it extends
with additional functionality. Okay. So
the first package which is um uh
responsible or acts in a storefront this
is a customer portal uh under Oro name
space uh so customer portal this is
actually let's u let me
pick up uh
and let's open so this part is uh so
okay let me name them first uh customer
portal then commerce and commerce CRM.
Okay. Now let's check uh briefly uh what
kind of functionality it contains and uh
so I have opened uh this is the same uh
or commerce application. Um I am
demonstrating and the first one was
customer portal
uh or
uh customer portal. Okay, this is it. Uh
so and this uh this package is related
to uh
providing uh functionality for logging
in uh
registered user uh bringing him the
ability to navigate over his account and
uh some uh front end related features.
Uh while uh and here you can see some uh
parts related uh to menu uh commerce.
This is related to uh sorry customer to
account uh section of the storefront. Uh
then front end uh related features uh
and some parts related to the website.
While if we are uh if we will be
checking commerce or commerce package
this one the third which was built on
top of customer uh or commerce it
provides uh the
functionality related to the sales
process. So here we have uh uh products,
we have uh product attributes, uh we
have the ability to uh purchase those uh
products, put them to the shopping list,
uh go through the checkout uh uh and
place an order like that. So uh and um
so commerce
or commerce this one and the packages or
the bundles uh here you see the bunch a
bunch of them like here shipping related
to shipping putting products to the
shopping list taxation u visibility
settings for different uh entities and
and so on. So plenty of them. So just
for your reference u and the last part
the last package related to commerce
is or sorry commerce CRM so this is kind
of a bridge uh between uh uh commerce
and uh back office uh back office okay
let's open commerce CRM
then check bundles
uh yeah bundle so you see that Okay. Uh
there is uh mostly this one I wanted to
demonstrate the bridge uh which uh uh
binds uh back office and uh commerce uh
storefront part of application.
Okay. Now let's continue and uh return
back to the storefront.
uh while I was demonstrating uh
storefront uh and back office u I've uh
uh I was navigated to the back office uh
through this admin prefix uh so this is
the thing that could be uh configured
and u so instead of using admin you
might use some um hash for instance uh
or some some other naming you would like
for your for instance back office just
as an example and for that you how it
could be configured. It could be
configured via this uh
application uh parameters. Here we have
a so in under configuration uh config
file we have a list of parameters all
available
here. So and uh one of that actually web
back end prefix it is responsible for
managing the the prefix for the back
office.
uh while uh so whenever you will be
introducing um additional uh roots for
additional uh functionality for the uh
storefront
uh the um
using croin and symfony roin and
controllers controller actions those
roots which are available which should
be available for the storefront they
should be um configured or defined
with a additional u option uh called uh
front end and pass it to true. So it
will mean that um these uh root and
controllers they will be available uh
only for the storefront. If you do not
define this part uh then uh the put in
the controller will be uh acting only
for the back office. So that's that's
the key point how how it is configured.
So anytime new functionality for the
storefront uh please add um this
uh this definition.
Uh so yeah and if you do not specify
that or specify as false it will be
available for the back office.
Uh the the part that is uh the
functionality that is related to
defining uh which roots to pick up and
provide for the storefront and which uh
for the actually for the storefront.
Yeah, this uh is handled by this uh
front end exposed roots extractor and uh
actually if you find something is not
working so you have defined you
put a break point here to check why the
root is not exposed just uh as a
reference for
yeah and how how it works. Uh you may
check it here.
Uh yeah actually the responsibility is
mentioned in
this doc block. Okay. So and uh another
thing so whenever you have a storefront
u root uh for your functionality uh you
would need uh sometimes you would need
to have this route uh
to be
act or
um uh to be performed from the
JavaScript and uh from JavaScript
components. Um in this case uh those
roots u storefront roots they should be
uh defined uh using u
expose uh yeah expose true uh so if you
do not um add this option then uh this
root uh or this uh
endpoint will not be available for the
uh interaction from the javascript.
Please uh keep this in mind and actually
this is handled by external uh forgs
rooting bundle. Uh you will refer to it
uh for
uh its documentation and actually those
roots are dumped using uh this forjs uh
bundle comment uh listed here.
Uh okay let's continue.
So we have um a route um under which you
can u u land on which you can land and
navigate uh in a storefront. Uh but as I
uh mentioned uh as I mentioned before
those routes could be uh available for
uh guest users right uh in a storefront
like here I am navigating the storefront
uh checking the website uh viewing
details of the of the of the products
and so on. uh on the other hand side I
may act as a registered user and for
that I would need to sign in
uh the part that is uh related to uh or
responsible for uh
registered users uh and especially the
so we we will actually cover how those
entities a bit before those customer
users but the main idea is that all of
Um um so not all of them but customer
users uh they are
implementing uh user interface uh and
you may check what kind of uh
uh methods uh available uh for for the
user u for the user entity.
Yeah. And if you go to the actually let
me open in the
it here.
Okay. And here we may check uh what kind
of entities are implementing this user
interface. And one of them this is uh
customer user entity which is uh u the
entity for the registered uh for the
registered users. Okay. We have a user
interface. On the other hand side we for
configuring uh whom we are allowing to
access a website. We have
an entity which implements user
interface. On the other hand side, we
should have a custom u user provider uh
which is u built on top of u symfony
uh oh like uh symfony user providers
and we have a definition of the firewall
whom we are allowing under which roots
what kind of user provider we are using
uh for
authentificating uh users. And actually
this is the uh the definition of the
uh front end part of uh of application
which is responsible for uh for the
firewall. uh and you may see that uh
front end part it uh relies uh uh on the
pattern on the URLs uh starting with the
uh no with no prefix. Uh here is the
provider uh custom uh user provider
which is used uh for providing uh
customer users while uh logging in and
uh so what else we have a logout path uh
definition
yeah some uh
uh some settings related to the uh
remember me uh
uh token
uh and uh Yeah. And the main thing also
which is worth mentioning is uh success
and failure handlers uh for this uh
uh for this uh for this firewall for the
front end firewall.
Um so yeah by this uh this is actually
the service uh uh
the names of the services by which you
can uh check uh how they are working uh
under the hood
and that's how uh storefront uh security
is configured. First of all uh need to
remember about this uh firewall
definition. What kind of providers
handlers are defined there? And whenever
you would like to extend to to change
the behavior uh provide for instance
customer uh users or registered users
while logging in uh by u some another um
logic by some another criterias. Uh you
may refer to that um firewall
u definition uh find responsible u
service which is uh uh you would like to
customize and
yeah and that uh customization in that
in the terms you would like
uh I guess that's it about uh storefront
um uh and now let's uh talk a bit uh not
talk a bit but continue with the uh with
the
websites. So we have a storefront and uh
actually it is operated uh storefront.
Let me close as a website and you may
have uh different websites in your
Orocommerce application. So you have
like one environment but uh you may have
uh on the same environment um different
uh websites serving uh different
websites.
Uh right now I am like navigating over
single website but I will demonstrate
you how website could be configured. And
uh the purpose of the website is to
introduce uh like different uh content
uh uh
for different types of users. Uh you may
have uh different products you would
like to present for uh for different
websites. So for instance, one website
would be uh presenting for one types of
users uh one list of products while
another will have another catalog of
products. Uh and per this let's say
website B you will specify the
visibility of the products you would
like to uh to be presented for the end
users. Uh
in some cases um CL we have client we
are working with clients we are working
with uh usually um cases is that one
website they are is configured for the
uh B2B clients while another one is to
B2C and so um that's pretty obvious that
for B2B we have like one uh purchase uh
process to be set up while for B2C
This is right another experience and
yeah in this case uh websites uh might
be useful for uh for setting up
and um so websites might have different
localization set up. For instance, one
website is set up for uh for one
localization, French for instance, while
another one is for u Japanese or another
uh localization. And while navigating
the website, uh there is an ability to
configure different uh uh
menus uh which will be available for
those uh for those websites.
Uh let me demonstrate uh how it looks
like uh using our commerce application.
Um so the configuration for the websites
it starts actually from the back office.
Uh as I mentioned before back office is
something uh we start configuring our
application. So if you go to system um
websites
we have uh here a list of actually um
this is the uh autocommerce application
I have installed with the uh demoator
uh and yeah that's why um all those
websites are listed here this is a demo
data and now we have uh we do see a list
of websites we have
uh already uh created and configured and
one of them uh is uh the default one uh
this one uh default with the flag yes
all others are uh not non-default
websites uh so if you go to the default
u so okay while creating a website
the main idea is to specify the owner of
the website uh the name of the website
uh configure um
uh should it be used for B2B or B2C? Um
actually this options uh while enabling
this option it will help us uh to set up
website properly and do um and perform
some uh configuration changes uh for us
under the hood. Uh we will check what
kind of u settings are meant uh when we
are configuring a website for the B2C.
Uh so we have the ability to specify uh
what price lists should be used for the
website. We will check it during price
list uh uh price topic on day I guess
two and some additional uh section
responsible for assigning what kind of
uh roles should be uh assigned for the
users for the guest users when they will
be navigating the website and whenever
user registered on a website what is the
default uh role uh uh will be assigned
to this uh user.
Uh let me switch back.
Um so this is uh the form for creating
pro for creating a website. Uh another
thing is uh that we can uh go to the
configuration of the website. So um
while creating a website we will have
kind of an entity a website entity uh
with it its property name u and some
relations to the uh rows like I
demonstrated. On the other hand side we
are able to
set up uh on configuration uh uh on
config configuration level what kind of
settings the website could be. Uh so we
have uh if we go to system configuration
back office has uh
its own like global uh global
configuration
and here you may see different uh
sections of uh configuration related to
diff to different parts of application.
Okay. So this is a global configuration
of the uh the application. Now if I go
to uh system websites, let me open in a
in a separate window.
Each individual website can have its own
configuration which will override global
configuration. Let me go to uh for
instance this one Europe website and
open
uh so this is a conf it also opens a a
page uh for configuring but this is
specifically for configuring uh the
settings uh for the website uh level uh
in the uh terms of Europe uh website and
uh it has it will have less options
steps uh than global configuration uh
because uh some of them uh uh might not
be relevant to the website configuration
but nevertheless here we may check yeah
it uh lists uh less products uh so I'm
sorry less settings
and actually let's uh check what how it
this configuration works
okay let me demonstrate u uh How?
So we have this um URL which is uh which
works for us. Um
when we are navigating to the website um
and we have the the URL for the default
website. Okay. Now I will um I will
configure this Europe website and uh
make it its URL
this one.
If I'm not mistaken, it should this one.
Okay.
So I I have changed and specified that
Euro website should have its own uh URL.
Okay. Now I will be navigating to the
URL
and I specified
one second I will check what was the
uh URL that I've configured for the
Europe. Okay, maybe it was
with the dot. One second.
I guess with the dot
save settings.
Thank you.
Okay, I will check what was the
configuration for the
uh for the Europe website. They have
been uh
on my environment. One second.
server list.
Okay. So, I have
what was that? Europe. Yeah. Through the
dot.
This is the Europe.
Yeah.
Okay.
Sorry for inconvenience.
[Music]
Okay, here I have a proper one. Let me
put here
something
I redirected to this one. I specify the
Europe.
Mhm.
So I think uh you have to clear a catch
or maybe you have to run the command
they showing on your front end panel.
[Music]
Just a second. I will
uh Yeah.
Yeah. But it's uh simply so I have a
configuration uh for the uh for the
website I'm using right now. So this
one. So I have a Europe with a dot and
uh yeah and then okay.
So I have saved the changes but I've
also cleared cash. So I have a consumer.
Okay.
I have purged the cash and meanwhile.
Okay. So,
and it should be with the
with the dot.
Okay. Right. With the dot. Okay. Save.
Save settings.
Yeah, I have saved. Now I go to this
one.
I am using dev mode. Uh right now
just uh for demonstrating
different uh settings we'll have here.
So it that's why it takes uh a bit more
time for the
uh to
for the response.
Okay, let's
um let me continue. I will check in a
moment. So I as I mentioned so we have
like a multiple websites and the key
point while it is loading I will check
in a moment. So we have a the ability to
specify multiple websites. Uh but uh
this uh feature is available for the uh
enterprise edition only. So in a
community edition you will be able to um
configure on a one single website and
while having a list of websites so one
should be marked as a default the one
that is used as a default website while
others are
uh non-default
uh each website has additional
configuration level as I mentioned so we
have a global configuration and uh
website has its own configuration ation
level uh and uh settings for the global
config for the website uh configuration
they override uh global configuration uh
settings
uh and uh there is an ability to specify
like URL um separate URL per the website
uh the ability to specify um what kind
of front end menu should be used what
kind of theme should be used um for the
website localization uh currencies u uh
and other settings. Let me check. So
yeah, so we have a
uh we have a Europe website to
demonstrate the difference. Uh let's go
to to the website Europe. Okay. And uh I
will pick up I will change something.
What I will change is uh what will be
theme? We will talk about theme um today
but I will change the theme um so change
to the custom theme. I will save the
changes to demonstrate the difference. I
will refresh a page.
I would need to check why it so slow
during the break.
Um,
okay.
It's too slow.
I will fix it on during the break. Okay.
What we have here? We have so many
topics.
[Music]
I will restart the server.
Okay, we have
while I'm restarting the server. uh it
was loaded with a with another theme and
you may notice the difference between
the default website. So has like a
different position of the uh of the
navigation menu. Um it has totally
different look and feel. Uh what else we
can configure for the website? We can uh
define for instance we would like to
have uh
uh to operate uh during
uh currency
currency pricing we would like to have
for the customer uh which is using
Europe website for instance we would
like to have both uh United States uh
dollars and euros to be used uh on this
Europe. website. I will save the
changes.
Uh, okay. The changes are saved.
For some reason, it I don't like how it
looks.
I will simply change to the production
mode and it will be much faster.
Okay, I will do it in a should be at
least much faster.
This is me who stopped. Uh,
but I will use a break to
check the reason.
Okay. Now need
cash.
One second.
Okay.
Uh once I have it clearing, so I would
like to
I would u like to demonstrate. So the
plan was to demonstrate uh the ability
to configure uh different uh currencies
per the website and I will demonstrate
in a moment. So with that we are able to
specify uh what kind of currency are
available for the website for the euro
for instance euro. Uh same for the
localization one site uh might be using
one uh language another u
another language. Uh we can have
multiple uh uh localizations and
multiple currencies uh enabled for the
for the website. In this case, we will
have a currency or uh language switcher.
Okay. One second. I will check whether
it was
okay.
Oh, it seems like
working.
Uh,
okay. We have enabled uh two currencies,
United States and Euro. Uh, this is the
Euro website and the change is that uh
now we have this uh currency switcher
which we didn't have before. And same
for the localization uh default website.
It has uh it has uh just single uh local
uh available uh while
uh Europe website it has three uh
English, French and German and let's
check it here localization
it has English, French and German. And
if I like to add Spanish for instance, I
will save the changes.
I will refresh. This is not it.
Europe.
Yep. With the production mode, you see
how it uh
responses just uh so fast. So yeah, no
need to So I the idea was to keep uh
development mode enabled uh just for
demonstrating under the hood. But I will
reenable it once uh I would need it.
Right now I do not need it uh that much.
We will use pro uh uh
production uh mode. So if you enabled uh
Spanish and this is uh it it became
available here in a uh localization uh
switcher. Okay, we have different
websites uh for different purposes.
Let's switch back.
uh localization how localization could
be configured. It could be. So first of
all uh this is uh this becomes useful
because there is like statistics about
preferences of the customer users uh u
so they would like to spend more time on
the on their native language that's uh
actually obvious and how it matters on
their uh
uh on their uh purchase uh experience.
uh to configure localizations for the
websites we would need to go uh I
suppose this is available in uh global
configuration uh global organization I
am using uh enterprise edition and
within the enterprise edition we are
able to configure uh multiple
organizations uh per the website to
separate the uh the entities between
organization to separate ate data
between organizations. So, and on the
global uh website, global organization,
we have uh localizations
and you may add um uh localization you
would like you would like to have
specifying the name, the title which
will be exposed on the storefront uh uh
on the storefront. uh select the
formatting for the localization. Uh
enable um if this is needed ref to light
uh right uh right to left uh mode and uh
define parent uh localization. So each
within a localization you can build
creating a localization. You might have
a parent child hierarchy uh for that.
And uh
let's check what documentation says. Uh
yeah, this is actually a useful thing.
Uh so for the localization uh settings
uh uh
using this class local uh settings
class. It will help you uh to provide uh
uh actually the class uh of the of this
the ID of the service is oral settings
and here are the examples uh for uh of
of its usage uh in application. So you
might u uh provide uh
current uh local uh depending on a uh
application usage for the calendar for
the time zone uh formatting the uh
person's name depending on on a on a low
scale. Uh yeah, please refer to this uh
to this uh article to this documentation
if you would like to
I guess not to introduce additional
changes but if you would like to to to
check how it is used and used for your
needs in your customization
and uh uh oops sorry
localization
uh and um remember when we were when I
was creating a website. Uh so the
websites they might be used for
different localization for different
currencies for different scope of
information that is u uh that is
available on a website different scope
of products but uh the main thing u
actually which is usually used um is
that u performing different websites for
different u types of clients like B2B or
B2C and uh
if If you would like to have a uh P2C
website, it will uh
for that we would need to apply uh
additional settings to limit uh to limit
u its usage for the B2C clients only. By
limiting I mean um as uh we have here on
the slide uh changing some options um
for instance disabling requests for
quotes. So if uh it is a B2C client,
there is no need to negotiate uh to
request some quotes uh and start this um
uh initiative from the uh buyer
perspective. So request for quotes are
disabled. Disable quick order form. Uh
this is a form uh this one uh default uh
sign in. I will demonstrate
uh disabling quick order form. This one
it becomes not available for the uh B2C
uh B2C clients uh
because this is mostly used by uh yeah
by B2B
uh request for codes. This is um
uh
this is this part when we would like to
uh to create some quote uh prepare some
quote and send it to the administrator
of the sales representative of the uh
of the website uh and negotiate some
special price for the uh for the product
we will uh check request for quotes
functionality uh during uh this training
on some of the days. Okay. So within a
B2C we are disable request for quotes uh
quick order form limiting number of
shopping lists um uh to one. So on a B2B
you have the ability to create multiple
shopping lists uh
like here creating additional
new lists and having multiple of them
but for B2C we should have like one
shopping list uh let's name it shopping
cart and also given the ability to uh
enable uh guest shopping lists and uh
for the guest users to be able to add
products to their carts and disable
quotes uh as a result of request for
quotes. Let's check what we have here in
documentation.
Yep, let's go
websites. I will switch to
over organization.
go to system websites
and actually the full list it is
available
uh while uh remember we could uh enable
B2C while creating a website right uh
specifying yes or no for uh create a
website uh here uh
yes or no or whenever we have already
running website for instance Canada we
may go and click configure for B2C. So
we have a running website Canada and
configuring for B2C. You may see uh what
kind of uh uh configuration uh changes
will be performed. Uh for sure uh after
performing them uh you may then for your
needs uh uh and for instance uncheck uh
reenable some of the uh uh features or
capabilities which are crucial for you
to have on a P2C website.
Um yeah and for that you would need to
go manually to configuration or apply uh
changes via migration.
Okay, let's switch back.
uh the ways how uh so remember we have a
one instance running like here I have
locally one instance running uh while we
have the ability one application running
while we have the ability to uh operate
or to u present to the end user
different websites and to the way how uh
websites uh application logic matches
and defines what website uh user to land
on uh to redirect to. Uh this is uh
performed via this website matchers and
we have like three uh different out of
the box I would say three different uh
options how this matching works. Uh it
could work uh based on uh URL. So
whenever I was uh
navigating to Europe uh okom and so on
uh the website was matched by URL
because uh Europe website has this uh
URL. Uh on the other hand side it could
be let me close it could be uh
uh matched by the cookie which is uh
which is available in a uh in a request
and depending on a cookie uh
the match uh is triggered and user is uh
landed to the proper website or another
thing is to uh based uh cookie and
another thing is whenever we have some
specific environment variable
uh and um so we have a value for the
environment variable and we have a value
for this variable and providing this
variable uh we can also uh match the
website and u land user to it. Let's
check in the configuration how it looks
like.
Uh okay we go to the back office system
configuration
and by the way yeah we can introduce if
u this u matures which are available out
of the box m sure are not uh satisfying
your needs and you would like to
introduce another mure uh maybe by query
u query parameter or u something like
something specific You may u
u extend this with the matcher you you
would like to have by some specific u
criteria
and by the way we can specify the order
uh by which we would like to match uh uh
what matcher should trigger first. So
first triggers environment variable uh
based match then cookie based and then
URL. So if we for instance have a cookie
based then uh and both URL uh then
cookie will trigger the first uh here is
the option uh by which we can define
what cookie to use for cookie matcher
and uh actually let's let's check how it
works. I will use this website let it be
cookie and I will u demonstrate how
works uh this cookie based uh matcher.
Okay. And now for your website I would
like to match it um
by cookie.
Okay. I will go to configuration
uh routing. Okay. So we have this URL
right and uh I would like to specify one
two three let it be cookie value. So if
I has okay let's make it more meaningful
Europe. Oops sorry.
Okay. So whenever I have a within a
request I have a cookie named website
with a cookie value name um equal to
Europe then I should uh be uh landed to
the Europe website. Okay let's save the
changes. So I have saved the changes and
now let me go to the default website.
Okay. So I have a default website. Now I
will uh edit cookies and I will add
another cookie as we've seen website.
Okay. With the Europe
Europe I will enable it from okay
now I have a website cookie
uh with the value Europe. Now I will
refresh the page and uh here we have uh
cookie based uh mature uh detected
cookie by that cookie equal to Europe
which was specified here in the Europe
uh website configuration. It detected uh
uh the Europe website and we were landed
to it as we have this enable redirect uh
uh turned on cookie based uh mature it
is it has the higher priority though we
were um we were requesting to the
default uh website but cookie based uh m
triggered first And uh we were landed to
the Europe uh website.
But again you can uh add um actually URL
to to my experience URL based me uh this
is the one which I used sometimes cookie
based uh yeah also used for that
purpose. Okay. And before we go to break
uh
actually not break but questions and a
um and answer section couple of things
uh related to best practices uh for this
part that we have just covered just to
recap. So we went through the
websites uh not actually the website we
we started from the application. So it
uh actually contains of two parts back
office and uh
and uh storefront. Uh we have the
ability to configure using uh back
office different u u behavior of our
application of the storefront. Actually
we will check um what uh is configured
from the back office moving forward. uh
while we have uh storefront storefront
might be uh running uh using different
websites and uh actually uh
now let's uh check the best practices.
So uh we recommend uh to change the uh
prefix for the back office and not to
use the default one just for security
reasons. uh uh usually uh this is
recommended to change from admin to to
any other that is preferable for you.
And whenever you uh are deciding to use
u uh like one website or multiple
websites uh we recommend to use it
whenever you have uh different
configuration for the website which is
or or different uh information that that
should be presented for the uh on the
website. uh different products uh yeah
different purchase uh uh process uh that
should be performed by the buyers. Uh
whenever you have uh
simply
the difference is in uh currency uh then
maybe it's good to have only single
website and use simply currency switcher
or localization switcher. Just if you
have like uh a content which differs
then please use different uh websites
introduce new websites and uh please
keep in mind that uh users while they be
navigating the website they will think
that these are totally uh different
application. Meanwhile, uh this will be
like one application which will be
running uh and in um presenting
different uh scope of data for the end
users.
Okay, that's it what I wanted to present
related to um storefront
introduction to the back office and also
websites. And before we go to
to the break uh so we have this uh Q&A
uh section uh please uh use uh chat uh
to ask questions or unmute and just
simply ask questions uh uh using voice.
By the way, I have not asked you uh do
you have uh
an environment already running? Uh so as
it was uh as it was
recommended in invitation u to pick up
that virtual machine uh uh make it
running locally just for you to uh
u to recap uh those parts we which we'll
be covering uh these days.
Uh do you sorry
this is Sanji here. So I was going
through those uh prerequisites uh
requirement and that Google links is
asking for your grant. So can you grant
access for downloading that image?
Uh so yeah it should ask for granting an
access. So whenever you are clicking uh
you are requesting an access and like I
am not the owner of that u uh instance
uh of that file sorry but uh uh the
owner was notified to grant accesses uh
for participants of our training. So I
will uh check with him whether he has uh
granted uh access any anyway you can
just uh r request uh again and yeah I
will I will use break and I will pin him
to check.
Mhm.
Okay. So we have a question or platform
is it uh back end uh correct with the
question uh mark. Uh so Oro platform
this is uh the the main package on top
of which uh all other uh uh
functionality or capabilities are built
uh are built on. So we have like uh Ora
platform. Okay. So on top of Ouro
platform uh it uh we have CRM. Uh so uh
Oro platform is used for the uh Oro CRM.
You know this is like another uh
application u u standalone application
we have in OraCommerce. Then again on
top of uh Oro platform we have
Orocommerce and uh we also have like Oro
marketplace but this is kind of not u uh
not a standalone but just a
customization for the Orocommerce. Uh
that's u just a short description. So
answering your question, this is not
kind of a a back end uh feature but
rather uh framework or uh the the
starting point the main uh the main uh
package for all other uh oro u
functionality for other oro extensions.
uh we can actually check uh it provides
the ability to for the data grid if I'm
not mistaken some uh security uh things
uh should be there like common
functionality that then is reused uh in
both Orocommerce or CRM or marketplace
and so on. Okay, one second.
Platform
bundle.
Okay. So, a bunch of them. So uh bundles
as I mentioned here data grid uh
dashboard
uh some uh adding comments uh actually
yeah this part is uh in a in a back
office managing digital assets uh
managing entities. So yeah, this is
actually the root uh the main package uh
uh for all other packages.
Uh
okay. Do we have a separate servers
running per website? Uh uh
no you should not have uh like different
uh
actually if you have different servers
running different uh website then you
would need to maintain all those servers
uh like uh deploy uh fresh code new
updates of your code uh like maybe
keeping sync if there is some need of
interaction between websites uh
exchanging data. But uh the main idea uh
of orcommerce websites is that you are
using single application, single server
u instance of the server and uh applica
websites are running on it. you would
need just to configure for instance not
for instance but just uh have DNS
records uh for different websites but
they will be for instance uh Europe
website and Canada website.com
they are uh referring uh both to the
same uh server and server running or
commerce application it detects the URL
and provides uh for the end user
proper website to be landed to.
Uh is it work fine under the docker
instead of virtual box? Yes, we do have
uh we do have uh like capabilities to
set up uh using Docker and it should be
available
uh it should be available in uh how to
set up in documentation or
documentation.
Uh one second. Uh okay, do
oops.
So yes, we do have and I will share a
link uh
in a moment.
And by the way, uh here is demo
environment. Uh
okay, I will open it here for others to
see
and how you can set up this demo
environment using different uh options.
I have shared one of the links uh the
link in the in the chat.
Are there any other questions related to
uh to the storefront websites?
If not
then let's uh take a 10 minutes break
and means in 10 minutes uh for the
next topic which we have here in a list
this is themes and layouts. Okay.
Okay. Now Alex before moving into the
next topic just a quick uh recap or some
some questions according to the previous
one. So uh the dashboard that we saw for
the back end uh that's specific for the
commerce part but it is not related to
the CRM right for the CRM is a
completely different dashboard or is it
all handled under the same one?
This is handled under the same one. So
actually yeah uh Orocommerce it also
uses Oro CRM features
the dashboard is the same. Okay got it
understood.
And about the B2C enabling or disabling,
you mentioned that there are some
features that we can enable or disable
like for example um quotes, right? The
quoting, we can enable or disable that
for the B2C.
Yes.
Um but can we do that differently for
the different uh store views? Let's say
I have my site for the US and my site
for Germany and I want to enable B2C in
both sides. And but in US I want to keep
the quoting but in Germany I want to
disable the quoting for the B2C I'm
talking about. So can we do that
separately for each branch?
Yes. Yep. You can do it and actually
using website uh configuration level. So
this is something that I am just
demonstrating. So go into system
websites and either go into
configuration uh let's pick up uh uh
Australia either from here here we have
a configuration right or another thing
we can go to website configuration
through this part uh under uh website uh
view page okay I am clicking to uh
configuration so now I am configuring uh
options or settings uh specifically for
the Australia uh website. And now I will
go to quick
order form. And here we have those
settings uh just as an example. So
imagine I have uh enabled uh for for
others website while I would like to
keep it disabled uh for uh for this
Australia website. So it will uh be
applied only if Australia.
Yeah. And uh yeah and just one thing u
enabling u B2C
it simply does uh it uh the same for you
uh just uh in a quicker way and it will
also uh the the whole idea is while
enabling B2C is to have this uh options
uh either enabled, disabled, checked
unchecked according to BTC website but
for you without going manually uh option
by option and specifying it on your own.
So it will just do it automatically but
again it will be performed specifically
for the website uh configuration level.
Got it. So all B2C options are done at
website level. Perfect.
Yes.
Mhm.
Okay. Uh and one last uh quick question
when you were talking about the theme,
the custom themes,
um those can be different for each
website, but uh is there a possibility
of making them different for B2C option?
I I guess not because B2C is not a
separate website. It's just a some
options, right? According to the level,
the role the role of the user. Uh but if
I would like to have a separate a
different theme for the V versus the B2C
that is that is not possible right at
least not out of the box.
Yes it it is possible. So out of the box
we have like two themes uh the default
one and the custom theme. You can
introduce your own theme uh on top of uh
existing one uh and then uh assign this
theme to and you can have as many themes
as you would like to have like for
instance uh six uh we have here six
right uh six websites you may have six
different uh themes uh per each
individual website. Then just the next
step would be just you have them then
you assign those themes to the websites
using again uh configuration.
Uh here we have theme. We will talk a
bit in a moment about themes but just uh
as you asked uh so we have this theme
and you assigning uh yeah and you can
actually have like different also
settings related not only the skin of
the uh look and feel of your website but
also positioning of of some elements and
so on.
Got it. But B2C users would not be
seeing a different theme. uh they will
be seeing different team actually. So
here I am using uh Europe website. Okay.
Uh sorry I am configuring uh a Europe
website. Now if I go to uh
and it uses custom team okay while uh uh
okay
this is actually the top the next topic
but let's check very quickly. uh theme
on a global level I have a default
theme. So two themes Europe has custom
and uh global and actually the default
website will have default theme. Now if
I am on a Europe website, uh one second.
Uh
this is the one
routing.
Okay. You see with the blue uh different
uh font uh colors, weight uh different
position. Uh this is how custom team
which was assigned to Europe website. Uh
imagine so this is a B2C for instance
while the default one uh
ah we are using cookie remember we have
added that cookie now it simply matches
me one second I would need to
uh to
yeah no worries. So I think I understand
now. My confusion was because I thought
that B2C customers would be under the
same website but um as as uh Nicholas is
asking in the chat that B2B and B2C
users will be on separate websites or
will be under the same website.
This will be uh same website. You see
that talking about websites. So
application is the same like website is
the same. Okay. uh you have the same
application uh yeah think about
orcommerce as the application right but
then uh how you are presenting uh and
the same instance one instance one
application but uh depending on uh users
uh you are you might be presenting them
different websites uh uh by different
websites uh different content different
uh theme but though this is running on
the same uh on the same uh application
Yeah.
Yes. And that but
um B2C customers will be under the same
website as the B2B customers because
it's let's say Germany. So I have the
B2B for Germany and then I have the B2C
customers also for Germany. So it is the
same website. How is it possible for B2C
customers to see a different theme if it
is the same website?
Uhhuh. I see. Uh so you have the same uh
Germany website right but you would like
to separate them uh between different uh
uh uh between different users right
correct. Okay then uh the next question
uh which pops up what kind of separation
you would like to have between do these
two uh different uh
uh users different types of users.
Should it be uh the for instance uh just
as an example different products right
you for instance you would like to
present on the same website uh different
products uh for one types for B2C users
you would like to present one set of one
list of products but for B2B you would
like to to present another list of
products right
for example
okay yeah as an example so we do have a
a configuration for that on a products
on a categories uh level to configure
visibility. So you will be running the
same website but depending on user they
will see different uh uh different uh
uh different list of products.
Different list of products.
Yeah. Another another separation might
be different content. Again if we are
talking about content then we we may go
to the uh content management and uh
define uh per which uh group of
customers we would like to present one
content per which we would like to
present another.
Yeah. And so here we have like the the
ability the flexibility to to configure
but again yeah we have like one website
which has one options u one settings and
then depending on the on the needs then
we are just trying to uh to separate uh
either content either flow uh for
instance during checkout you might have
to approve for B2B to approve some uh to
be products uh which are in a checkout
to be approved by some manager. While
for B2C, you would like to have like
single page uh single page checkout. Uh
no need for any approval, no need for
additional steps. Again, this is uh this
is something that could be configured uh
uh
from partially from back office,
partially from customization. So it all
depends uh
uh so if you provide some specific case
how you would like uh to separate the
same website per different users I would
provide you the hints where it could be
tuned.
Okay. Okay. Thank you. Let's let's move
on.
Okay. Then we have uh
additional questions. just want to just
are we recording uh sorry on B2B and B2C
will be on separate websites correct uh
so I guess we have just uh discussed uh
usually better to to put them on on
separate websites
I I guess it would be uh more convenient
from configuration standpoint so
different websites might have different
uh uh workflows checkout workflow and it
will be more easier to to separate but
If um the question is about uh only some
content presenting content uh uh
uh then it could be configured by the
same website.
Uh we are not recording uh to the rules
of the training u which is not set by me
actually. Uh this is not uh this is not
allowed
the recording
uh but you cannot have a different team
based on customer group. Uh
I would uh check it. Uh I would check
it. So we have on a uh so we have
different types answering your question
uh Nicholas. So we have like uh
different levels of configuration uh
global
website also customer group and customer
and need to check uh whether on a
customer group. Okay, this is actually a
bit another topic but we will check
right now. So on a customer group we
have like a set of uh a set of
settings available. uh out of the box
you see that uh uh theme is not exposed
as a customer group configuration but uh
configurations they could be easily uh
extended with uh from code I mean from
with additional settings and then uh you
can use this settings for per the web
per the
different customer groups we will check
uh how themes and layouts work. So
answering your question, out of the box,
no, but it could be customized using
customer groups settings.
Uh
okay, we can wait. Um okay, so let's uh
then uh take a 10 minutes break. Uh 10
minutes break and then uh continue with
the
uh with the themes and layouts this one.
So meet you in 10 minutes.
Okay.
guys.
[Music]
So, let's continue.
10 minutes has passed.
One second. I will open slides for the
next topic.
Let me close those parts which are not
relevant anymore.
Yeah, we're back.
Okay, let's start then. Not start
actually but continue. So we have a
website, we have a storefront. User is
navigating over u the website over the
storefront and purchases some products.
For that to have different experience or
to have different look and feel, we have
so-called themes which could be assigned
for the uh for the websites. And
actually this is the user interface
representation of your website of your
of your pages. Uh yeah,
think about scheme as a scheme of your
of your application and it actually
includes some layout changes. uh moving
blocks uh in different positions uh
removing some blocks, introducing
additional blocks uh for the for the
theme, uh adding styles for them. Also
you might have some specific u
uh behavior uh provided uh using uh
JavaScript components which would be uh
like relevant for could be relevant for
specific theme and u uh what else uh I
would like to mention is that theme uh
while creating a theme it uh usually
should have like one parent uh theme and
then only those parts which are not
working uh for the for the newly
introduced theme they are overritten in
the in the theme that is introduced. So
the uh
key point is uh not to
uh not to uh write uh define too much uh
introducing while you would like to have
a new theme. Uh not to uh over uh not to
introduce too much u coding. uh better
to use uh a parent have some parent
theme and then only define those parts
which are not working uh in a in a
custom theme. Uh and uh out of the box
we have the ability to uh configure
theme depending on a uh global uh for
the global um website which would be
applied for all the websites. while uh
taking
website configuration we can define some
specific theme uh for the website. This
is actually out of the box. But uh as uh
we were talking about uh other uh levels
of uh configuration like customer group
or customer uh we may uh introduce a
change and uh uh introduce a settings uh
for the or other levels of uh
configuration and uh use specific theme
for specific uh either customer group or
customer.
And uh uh whenever we are talking about
theme
uh it is worth uh stating that uh theme
which is in a back office this is uh um
it actually differs from the one we have
in a storefront.
In a back office we have this gray and
white uh
like plain uh
styles. Uh while in a storefront we have
uh colorful u
fully uh uh fully different uh theme and
uh for defining themes uh in a back
office. Uh
by the way in the back office this is
also a theme but this is autoo admin
theme. Uh yeah and uh it is uh while
specifying the the teams to be used in
the back office and configurations for
the team we have two uh configuration
nodes in application
um in application uh parameters which
are responsible for that. For the back
office this is orura team while for the
storefront u layout
settings they are responsible for
storefront theme. We will check it uh in
a moment.
And out of the box uh while installing
uh Orocommerce application, you will
have uh two themes. The default one and
the custom one. Okay, let's
Let's go to the back office admin
is the default team responsive by
default.
Yes.
Uh it is responsive. Yeah. But just uh
um my suggestion to either to ask
questions at the very end or just use uh
chat uh to paste questions there just to
me not to switch between different
contexts and uh like keep make an
opportunity to answer all the questions
at the very end if you don't mind. Okay.
Yeah. Great. Sorry. Sorry for interrupt.
Okay. Then um
me I will enable consumers for them to
be running.
Actually it doesn't matter right now but
not to forget.
Okay.
Uh global configuration. Um so system
configuration
and navigateing to theme
we have these two themes default and
custom. The difference is
following. This is the default one
and this is a custom one. How they are
defined uh in a in a code.
Uh let's go to this thing.
Actually this is one of the packages
which we were talking uh before uh
customer portal uh package which was as
I mentioned which is responsible for
storefront part especially like look and
feel account section and so on and uh
here we have this front end bundle which
actually responsible for defining u
additional themes for the front end for
the storefront
and um
so Here is the list uh not not the list
the files which are uh related to the
default theme. As you may noticed that
the theme itself it is located under
resources view layouts. This is common
uh path which is used for all the themes
and the key point is that uh under
layouts we should have a uh folder with
the name of the theme. Uh in this case
we have a default theme and it is
located under uh layouts uh in a default
folder
uh what kind of uh files and folders we
have uh
for the theme uh and responsible for
that. So we have uh first of all we have
this theme YAML file and this is the
file where uh the definition the main
definition of the theme listed uh the
definition itself uh contains of the
label of the theme uh default theme and
I think this is it what we've see uh
what is um the label which we see then
in configuration
then we have some description um this is
uh the description of the theme. Then we
have uh a groups u settings which says
uh to which uh group of application
let's say part of application uh theme
should be applied. So uh we have like uh
if group is not specified it will be
applied for the uh back office. If
groups uh has commerce uh it means that
uh this theme is available for uh for
storefront uh part of application that's
how it u
it is defined or relates to commerce
means for the storefront uh no groups
for the back office we have an icon and
for the logo for the theme um Um
um yeah and uh either ref to live uh
support for the theme enabled or not. We
will check how this uh right to left
support uh behaves on what uh it
influences.
Okay. We have a default theme theme yaml
file which defines the theme itself and
we have some u folders
uh here configuration which specifies in
configuration u specifies the files for
listing uh some u styles so-called
assets. And here is you you may find uh
what styles are uh used for this uh for
this default theme. Uh as I mentioned
theme might have some uh uh
JavaScript components related to it. And
this specific default theme we have this
uh uh JS models uh YAML file which
defines what kind of JavaScript
components uh uh could be used in a uh
on this theme um like here some managing
some filters
so plenty of them uh some widgets uh uh
sticky panel widget uh and so on. some
some
uh JavaScript related uh uh stuff.
Okay. And screens YML file it defines uh
uh on what screens uh what kind of uh uh
classes additional classes to use. And
this is uh actually uh goes to the part
that was to the question that was asked
whether teams are uh responsive or not.
So it could be actually it is achieved
using u uh
different styling uh styles for
different uh for different blocks.
Okay. And um
we have uh the theme
um okay other part I will describe a bit
later. So just keep in mind it has a
definition it has some configuration and
other parts we will go in a second.
Let's check the difference with the
custom team. Uh we have the second one
we have out of the box.
So this is a blue one this one.
And uh the definition uh of the theme is
uh not so big as for the default uh not
only definition but also settings. And
the reason for that is that uh this uh
custom theme it uses as a parent theme
the default one. So u here you may
notice that uh we have like additional
settings parent uh which is defined for
the custom theme. That's why we uh we
will be using the default one. Uh when
custom theme is selected, we are using
the default theme and only those parts
which we would like to uh override uh
only those parts are overwritten like
this u font size uh font weight uh font
itself u uh the position of the of the
blocks on the those parts. some colors
are overwritten and it actually overr uh
overrides using configuration. Uh so it
has like a bit different uh stylings uh
style uh files. um
some other JS models which uh should
work u JS components which should work
specifically for the custom team and
uh other layout uh layout
changes which we will go in a moment.
So the key point you have a default and
this is a parent theme for the custom
custom theme it only overrides those
parts which do not work uh for them for
us to be in a default theme from the
default theme sorry and we are changing
only those which we would like to
change.
Uh yeah and for defining we should have
uh so whenever we would like to
introduce new theme it does not matter
in what uh bundle you put it. uh but
actually as a recommendation we uh
recommend uh for the for any uh theme
changes or front end uh changes to
introduce a separate bundle and uh
within that separate bundle let's call
it also front end bundle or theme bundle
introduce uh uh yeah introduce
additional bundle and put uh all theme
related uh uh changes uh definition
there. So imagine you have you would
like to have separate theme. The default
and custom theme does not do not work
for you. You introduce a new bundle. Put
under resources view the name of your
theme. That's uh
as an example
uh some
AKMA or ABC theme. uh and on the theme
yl file you define uh the parent uh of
the theme and uh the name description
and other related stuff. Uh if you do
not define parent theme then you would
need to uh
uh to uh prepare uh layout u uh styling
and uh all those how the website should
u should be presented on your own and it
might be time consuming I guess and uh
so better idea is to take a default team
one of the default teams customer and
and uh just uh tune it uh per your
needs. Otherwise, you would need to uh
list too many changes uh uh in your
team.
Okay. And once you have a theme, then
you need to enable this theme to be uh
to be available in a uh in a
configuration.
Uh okay let's go through quickly uh
through these links and I will check uh
what we have here.
Remember I was talking about oral
layout. Uh this is the uh root uh
configuration note root uh note of
configuration which is responsible for
the storefront uh theme changes. And uh
here using this active team we can
define uh what kind of active team
should be uh out of the box uh uh in
in your application.
Um this is this describes how to define
uh assets for your theme and uh oh this
part I will demonstrate um as well.
Okay. So we have a theme then you would
need to enable it and for enabling uh we
have uh for the back office remember Oro
theme um is used as a um
uh root note for the theme definition we
have this u active theme called Oro.
This is the one which you see here
uh in the back office. This is the uh
Oro back office theme. Uh usually back
office theme is not customized because
this is not simply used just by
administrators. No need to have like
specific uh very specific
uh another theme for this uh for this
configuration for this uh uh back office
part.
Um yeah, but if you introduce some uh
customization, some uh maybe some
dashboards, maybe some some specific
views, then you may just add additional
styles. Uh but anyway, continue using uh
back office or theme. Let's switch back.
And for the uh storefront um here is
where we defined uh what kind of enabled
themes we have u available and u
actually this is uh the configuration
for uh orcommerce application and we may
see that two themes are available. So
while if you introduce your ABC
additional theme you would need to add
it uh in configuration uh as enabled
themes and after that it will be
available here for for selection.
Okay and custom team definition this is
where we already been I have
demonstrated for the custom team the
definition.
Okay.
Um
the theme itself it could be uh the
active one it could be set using
different uh
options. So first of all using uh
configuration YAML file using Oro layout
active theme u let's switch u
uh oral layout um
one second
I think it was here
yeah oral layout active theme this is
option number one how you can specify
the theme to be used in your application
Okay. Uh option number two is go to
system uh configuration and enable it
there
or using website configuration and again
on a website level enable theme. This is
option number two. Another option is to
use uh installation or uh update uh data
migrations uh which are performed
whenever you are installing uh
installing your application or whenever
you are
uh updating your application. So
migrations are executed and using
configuration manager you can uh set for
the Ouro front 10 front end theme and
specify not the default theme but your
specific uh theme. This is actually
useful whenever you uh uh you you need
to
uh u perform these updates on different
instances and uh on local instance on
development instance on stage instance
and you would like to have the same uh
behavior uh the same settings not to set
up them manually u yeah using system
configuration. So the migrations are
executed and you have the same state uh
as another
uh as another instances
and uh the um class which is or the
service which is responsible for uh for
the themes uh uh is uh called theme
manager uh you see it is located on the
platform. So this is the main uh package
uh for for other
applications both back office uh uh uh
part of application and storefront and
within a theme manager uh yeah main
entry point for allowed themes uh it
provides uh theme uh
active or not active enabled act uh
themes we have in application it
provides the enabled theme how it
defines you may find it here. Uh pick up
all themes. Um so whenever there was a
questions you would question if you
would like to uh introduce some specific
them theme for the uh customer group uh
you may refer to this theme manager and
introducing
uh settings for the customer group
specifying some custom theme. uh then
you may uh for instance check uh whether
team manager satisfies and picks up um a
specific theme for this uh particular
customer group. If not uh maybe some
customizations need need to be
introduced. This is the the service I
would recommend to start uh checking uh
uh for the theme manager. I mean uh how
themes are final theme is prepared and
how they are picked up. And by the way
uh here is the uh
the method which is responsible for
emerging uh theme templates. And so if
there is your theme has a parent theme
then uh it also uh introduces additional
logic to pick up uh parent theme uh
templates and combine them. uh under the
team you are using right now.
Yeah, just as a reference uh it will be
here in slides.
Okay. Uh remember that having some
website we could have having some
localization we can have um yeah we were
um able to set up right to left um
support. Uh on the other hand side ref
to light support is could be enabled per
the theme and uh how it is enabled it is
enabled using R to left RTL uh support
uh
simply R2L one second
uh yeah RTL support uh this settings. So
within a default theme uh this setting
is enabled. Once it is uh enabled
it, uh gives the ability to pick up u
additional styles uh with the RL this
CSS
uh they are picked up. One second. There
is automatically
uh yeah uh here
uh
here is the definition. Uh so um it
simply says that uh uh those u with the
RTL u CSS uh files that should be picked
up and uh provided to the final output.
And um if you are working um with the
theme and would like to like introducing
uh some
uh some views um and would like to check
uh whether for this particular uh
website or for the particular theme uh
right to left mode is enabled, you may
refer to this uh specific
is RL mode enabled uh context variable
context. So this is um
so each u u whenever like theme is uh uh
theme um layout
blocks are uh prepared um there is a
special
service which uh collects uh the context
uh application context and this
application context might contain uh
actually contains um different u
uh
settings which are exposed and then to
be used uh for the for managing how
theme should look like and one of them
is this uh right to left uh mode enabled
and this is how it could be checked in a
in a layouts. Uh so
this context u
model um it contains this uh actually
this is an array uh contains this um the
value for the for the enabled mode and
you can simply use it. In this certain
case, we simply depending on the enabled
or enabled mode adding uh or specifying
uh the value for the the de uh uh
option. We will check uh in layouts what
it means. But just uh for now keep in
mind that uh whenever this mode is
enabled then in the layouts we have this
specific context which could be checked
and uh in a twe uh templates u there is
a special tweak function uh or is RTL
mode which you can use in in a tweak
templates for checking
and uh yeah I mentioned it before we
have this um uh support it is enabled
per uh localization.
One second. I will
uh So we have uh localization
[Music]
and depending on selected localization
for the
uh for the website uh it will
uh okay it will define whether
this mode is enabled or not.
localizations
create localization.
This option is responsible for that for
enabling this support
uh
while uh
introducing your website u uh your
application uh built uh using
Orocommerce. Uh so usually there is like
a question u either to use the default
or theme to introduce uh your new theme
um for the which will be like very
specific of your for the business you
are doing u branded and so on or there
is like additional option is to
uh is to use uh an extension um uh we
have uh publicly available called u uh
default theme configuration extension.
Okay, this is the the extension. What it
gives? It gives the ability uh to uh
define uh so it gives the ability
gives additional configuration by which
you can uh change uh the theme uh the
default theme uh of the application. So
here are the examples like changing the
the colors, the fonts, uh the position u
and we have like u description of the
just as an example of kind of uh options
could be changed for the header, footer,
u some secondary color. So you are
specifying all that stuff and um uh
presenting uh a different uh uh
uh theme. Uh it will be used the default
theme but actually it will be styled and
colored differently and some clients uh
are using uh
uh some clients are using this uh uh
this extension uh so much and we have
like uh some source code which is
available here. So it was developed by
uh one of our uh developers and quite
rich documentation uh what could be uh
configured uh using this uh
uh this extension
plenty of options.
So on top of existing default themes, it
simply brings uh additional
customizations specifically related to
changing styles, colors uh uh of the of
the website.
Okay. So we have a theme uh but under
the hood u the theme itself it should
have some layout and actually layout is
built of the layout itself and the
blocks it contains of uh and layouts
this is a view layer of the MBC model
view controller this pattern uh layout
contains of the uh structured blocks
uh let's check this link uh what it says
has
uh so we have a u remember we were
talking about default theme here we have
um and by the way you can uh specify um
theme uh updates uh in different bundles
you would like. So the common uh
recommendation is to introduce u u some
front end bundle or theme bundle and put
all your changes there while in this
certain case uh so some UI bundle as an
example in it introduces uh the changes
for the default theme and they are
listed under resources view layout uh
path. So following this pattern you will
have the changes for the default theme.
Yeah. And uh so we have u a page folder
which means that uh these changes will
be applied to all the pages of the
default theme. And uh we have a layout
YAML uh file and layout fi YAML file is
actually responsible for uh defining
layouts uh layout of your theme. So this
uh particular uh and actually you can uh
use any name in name here not only
layout but just uh uh header footer uh
it doesn't actually matter the name uh
the key point is to put under the
correct folder. So putting under page
folder it means that this uh YAML file
uh will be applied for the all pages of
the default theme. And here it lists
what kind of
uh it lists actually uh some uh
operations which are some actions which
are performed uh over the uh
the the over the layout. Uh it
introduces a tree uh with some uh root
node with some uh head which under the
hood contain title uh matter um blocks
the body with some wrapper uh and other
content uh like that. So think about
layout is uh about is that this is a
some structure of some of some blocks
and actually these blocks might be of
different types. Um here you see that uh
page sidebar this is of block time
container simply a container. Uh while
uh this JS modules uh this is a block of
uh another type JS models config uh
while body is of another. So you may
have like pl
so there are like out of the box some um
block types u which could be used in
your layout uh containers uh uh blocks
some specific u u block types while you
can introduce u your own if um those out
of the of the box are not working for
you you can introduce your own uh block
types uh as well and we have an examples
uh for that uh in documentation how to
do that.
Uh okay and uh so we have the structure
and
uh then u we have uh as I mentioned some
actions that could be performed. Um here
we are adding a tree uh of um of blocks
uh the definition of items um how those
items uh uh should look like how head
should look like what kind of options it
could have um the title which are
provided from some providers and uh the
action which actually uh so we have a
tree with items and they are added by
add tree action. So we are adding the
whole tree. Another example we can
simply let's go
to one of the
uh let's pick up some of the other uh
another action that could be performed.
We can set some options. Uh this is
using set option uh action. So for for
instance for the mobile uh for the
mobile layout we are uh changing um the
content uh value for the uh meta
viewport um block uh and we are changing
the its value with the this uh width
device
width settings and especially yeah um to
define that this is uh This uh layout
updates they should be used specifically
for the uh mobile and other context is u
global uh publicly available uh context
uh is mobile is used for that purpose.
So in this way we can check either we
user is using mobile then uh change uh
set u this value uh and provide another
one override the the default one. So we
can set options. We can uh actually I
guess it should be listed here.
What kind of options do we have? Yeah.
Uh what kind of actions? We could add
some blocks. U so imagine we have a
default theme with some layout but we
would like to introduce uh additional uh
block to this default theme using add
and specifying uh what kind of block you
would like to introduce. You will add
additional block. Add tree will hold
will add the whole tree like several uh
items with some hierarchy will be added.
Removing items moving uh item from
moving block from one place to another
and so on. Changing the the options,
replacing and so on. Plenty of them.
Uh we have uh possible uh block types
that I mentioned. So uh here is a bunch
of them. For the button you might have
like button uh type uh of the layout you
will be using for the links uh but the
main the the the mostly used is uh uh
block types uh containers and blocks.
And uh finally uh like thinking about uh
uh layouts you will have or you should
have uh this kind of structure. And this
is a simple example. Uh with then uh
some theme that you have for instance
the default theme you will have the
structure of your theme uh of your
layout
containing some uh main some root block
which under the hood contains like three
blocks header footer and this uh main uh
area some body for instance while body
contains sidebar and main content.
[Music]
Okay.
Yeah. And each block it renders u some
piece of u HTML uh in the in the layout
structure.
Uh
okay this is the example I went through
the directory structure we also have
checked. So we should have uh this u uh
so all theme uh configuration uh is
defined under uh this resources view
layouts theme where we have
configuration uh for the assets and uh
JavaScript uh components.
Um we have the ability to specify
um the folder with the imports and this
is um
actually the place uh where you uh
define uh layout and blocks which you
would like to reuse. For instance, you
have this u
second uh oops
you have this uh
uh this block uh oh let's pick up this
one uh this search for a product. So you
define uh in one um in the imports
folder how this uh block should look
like what kind of options it can uh
receive and then simply uh
import and reuse uh this block on
different uh pages like navigating here
to above. you still have have this uh uh
search for a product uh block u and and
other places. So you define an imports
folder and then simply reuse it just not
to copy paste across different u pages
but just define once and use in other
places.
Okay, let me
uh return back to to the default themes.
So okay we have configuration the assets
and we have imports where we have u uh
some common uh commonly used uh blocks
which are then we use. So here we have
defined how data grid should look like
um in the imports folder and then under
different pages we may pick up this u
data grid uh layout definition and uh
reuse it for the uh listing orders uh
data grid for listing products data grid
for listing uh some customer users data
grid uh yeah but uh in general the
definition and the how it should look
like is defined in the imports folder
and reuse. Okay, let's switch back. Um
page folder it is related to uh to all
the pages. So uh the definition that is
listed here icon some JS models uh all
that stuff will be applied to all pages
of the default theme. But if we if you
would like to uh specify
uh to specify some uh some specific u uh
layout uh depending on a root uh on the
URL uh that is um that user will be
landed to. Uh then we would need to use
uh the folder which is named by the root
name. uh for instance uh uh oro uh
content workflow uh transition form.
This is a root name and under this uh
while user will be navigating to this
route. Uh the layout should be uh should
be changed. And here you may notice that
we are introducing some additional
blocks uh some importing some uh reusing
some of the existing blocks and moving
some blocks from one place to another.
Uh so just to
uh to recap page for all the pages and
uh folders which are named by root name
they used for specific uh roots only.
Yeah, for specific roots only. Let's
pick up an example what we have here.
Yeah. And in this example, uh we have a
custom theme. Okay. We have uh the page
it will define the changes for all the
pages and for checkout uh when user will
be on a uh or check out front end uh
checkout route. Uh then uh for the
custom team it will introduce some
different uh uh some other updates uh
for this particular uh particular route
and actually or check out from 10
checkout. This is
and this is it. I will demonstrate in a
second.
Okay. Okay, I will just in a second
enable
dev mode. One second and demonstrate it
here.
One second.
And demonstrate how
the layout structure looks like.
Okay.
Now
I will pick up
uh the default website. Um I have
enabled uh
uh dev mode. Within a dev mode we have
this uh symfony toolbar available at the
bottom. So we could be expanded
collapsed.
Okay. And uh let's actually sign in.
Okay. So if I go to the
to the checkout
right here you see what kind of uh route
is used for the uh for the checkout uh
for this particular page and for it um
so I have navigated here uh we have a
root named called Oro checkout front end
root
So whenever we would like to introduce
changes to the layout of this uh of this
page, we would need to copy this root
name and uh add under our custom theme
add a folder with the name of the root
in this case or check out front end
checkout and introduce uh the changes uh
to the layout. uh let's see what kind of
changes uh are
introduced for instance multiple
uh multiple shipping methods.
Uh so this uh
change is applied only when we have a
workflow step enter shipping method and
multi shipping enabled. So whenever we
have uh we are
uh on this page and workflow
have several steps billing shipping
shipping method. So we should be on a
shipping uh information step or shipping
address step. This is this one
this step um
if you are on this uh step enter
shipping method. Oh actually shipping
method this is this one.
So okay whenever we are on this shipping
method uh step of the workflow plus we
have uh like multi-shipping enabled.
This is in configuration then we would
need to append additional option for
this uh for this uh block. Uh we have uh
uh this layout block just uh grid render
parameters and some add some additional
JavaScript model
uh
and let me demonstrate how
layout structure looks like. So if I go
to the
to the profiler of this toolbar and pick
up layouts. So for the layouts we have
additional section and this is actually
available for the uh storefront uh only.
So we have a layouts it responsible for
um
providing information what how layout is
built of kind of what kind of blocks and
how they could be customized. Okay we
have a layout it works uh for the root
or check out from 10 root. Okay. So, I
can expand. Um, by the way, the updates
for the layout could be added here is
the hint uh either to the uh oro
layouts default or a check out from 10
checkout page or to this one. uh or if
you would like to have uh to to have
these updates available for all the
pages then they would need to be added
to the page folder or uh to the uh
default uh uh folder of the of the field
of the default theme. Okay, I have
expanded uh and now we may see uh the
structure of our layout uh uh layout
tree. So it contains of the head which
under the hood contains title. Remember
we were navigating uh in a default
theme. We've seen this meta uh meta
viewport
and so on. The body which has some
wrapper. We also seen that uh in a
default theme uh which has a page
container and the the whole tree uh of
the
uh of the layout. If we pick up one of
the uh
uh one of the blocks which are listed,
let's pick up this logo, right? We can
see the definition uh of the u of the
block. So we may find uh the template u
by which this block is rendered. This is
a tweak template uh block logo widget.
Um let's actually
pick up here. I will try to search it
here.
Maybe not so good example.
Okay, let me pick up some other
second
bar search.
Um,
okay.
Okay. So we have a
uh template uh which is responsible for
this block and the plate is uh prepared
using twe uh template and here is u you
may find how it looks like. So if we
would like to override it then we would
uh refer to the same block name and add
changes u to the overwritten uh block.
Um
okay let's uh so uh there is an ability
within this uh profiler to define the
structure uh to check the structure uh
of your layout uh to check uh what kind
of template is used for the particular
block. Uh this will give you the ability
to know um the ability yeah to know what
by what ID you would like to you can uh
override this uh uh this block this
widget and it also uh contains some
useful information u of the block the
ID. So for instance, you would like to
introduce new options for this block,
then you will be referring to the ID of
the block and adding additional options,
some unique identifiers. If options u if
we have an options uh uh like here. So
uh items for the top navigation menu, it
is provided using data menu uh get menu
uh uh method. So let's pick up here.
And actually here is the place where
this top navigation uh uh block uh was
uh was added. So under customer portal
we have this uh default uh theme folder
uh page means it will be applied for the
uh for all the pages because we would
like to have top navigation to have on
all the pages. It contains uh the
definition of this top navigation uh
uh block uh and the structure itself and
contains uh how items are provided using
this provider. And if you go to uh this
top navigation uh HTML tweak file, we
will find the uh templates which are
used for these blocks.
And here are the templates for temp uh
top navigation container, top navigation
uh and top navigation menu container.
Okay, we have um
theme. Under the theme we are able to
define u
layout structure. We can um for the
layout we can have different u actions
that could be performed moving blocks uh
removing blocks changing options of the
blocks depending on different
conditions. For one customer we are just
for instance we are removing some block
for another we are just uh viewing that
uh that block on the uh layout
uh yeah and using proper uh path to put
the files uh to under uh resources view
layout theme.
uh having um
a layout uh you have defined for
particular team uh sometimes uh it might
be useful. So whenever you have like uh
content which is not used too often for
instance navigation you have a
navigation menu which is uh quite uh
complex u with uh some
plenty of items uh uh of this navigation
menu and u for it uh for the navigation
menu uh to be built uh much quicker um
you do not change it frequently.
um and to be provided for the end user
uh more quickly you may introduce
so-called layout cache it will means
that the block which is responsible for
the uh top navigation uh let me pick up
here for instance top navigation menu uh
you would like to cache it uh for the
items uh so and actually the block with
the with the items
It will be cached uh with all the
structure with all the
uh items. Yeah, it will be cached and uh
whenever user will be navigating between
PE pages, it will not uh so the server
will not uh each time uh process the
layout structure, build uh fetch items
and based on fetched items build the
navigation menu. But simply it will be
provided the whole um layout will be
provided from uh from cache and with
that you can save u time for rendering
the page and provide better uh user
experience. You can enable it for some
specific layout blocks. U for instance
for top navigation menu container only.
Uh and u you can define it for what
particular time um this block should be
cached and uh if there is a change was
performed. Uh for instance uh
uh you have added uh some uh
some items to the uh navigation menu.
You would like to invalidate cache for
the end user to uh provide accurate um
and proper results. Yeah. And there is
an options how to invalidate u cache.
Let's pick up documentation quickly go
how it is defined.
Uh so for that you would need to uh have
this uh for the block uh to define uh
either cache u enabled or disabled uh
for particular. So if we are talking
about uh top navigation menu container.
So you would pick up this ID top
navigation menu container and in your
layout definition would need to sorry uh
where I was u to define this uh settings
set option top navigation container
option name cache and equal to true.
Whenever you have uh the requirements to
have this cache valid only for specific
amount of time, you can add max h u and
the value in uh in seconds.
Uh then uh imagine you have you are
listing a products um in the
in the data grid and you would like to
to cache this data grid. Uh while uh
caching the data grid uh you would like
to hash cache the data grid but uh uh
have it uh vary um depending on the
product that is uh listed in this data
grid. introducing this very by uh
product. In this example, uh the block
will be cached but uh it will vary
depending on the provided ID in the
list. And if we have uh if we are adding
tax for the
for this uh for this caching then based
on this uh uh tax we can refer to the c
pool and invalidate uh invalidate uh the
cache layout has for the particular uh
particular block.
Yeah. And other examples how this uh
this should work. There are clients
which are using that and it saves u it
brings like additional performance and
saves some time uh while uh providing uh
storefront uh pages for the end users.
Uh so in some cases this is uh relevant
to be used.
Okay. And some best practices. Uh yeah,
I mentioned that before that um we
recommend to put theme related uh stuff
in a separate bundle. Uh usually some
front- end developer could be working on
that. Uh so that is hold in one uh theme
bundle
just for better organizing u the work
and yeah if you face with the issues
that some blocks are making are too
complex uh and
blocking um for the page uh response
then you may introduce layout cache and
have better performance uh for
Uh okay that's it what I wanted to um
present related to themes and layouts.
Just to recap uh briefly, we have a
theme. Theme is a skin. Uh skin could be
assigned uh either globally either on a
website uh configuration having a skin
you uh may have uh a different layout uh
layout for that scheme. And for managing
layout for the skin. Uh here we have
this u layout definition. Uh and um
some actions which could be performed on
a on a layout and also checking the
conditions uh for what uh types of users
for what application behavior to display
uh or move uh this or that layout
blocks. Plus uh each layout u might have
uh their own styles uh JavaScript u some
behavior and it is also attached on the
for the themes uh uh for the theme you
are introducing.
Uh now let's switch to questions and
answers and I will check what we have
here.
Okay, the first question is do you mean
we have to import search bar uh part on
every layout page uh uh homepage PLP PDP
uh
not uh that I um so I suppose this is
related to the imports u uh to the
imports
uh let's pick up uh custom
impulse.
Yeah. For example, for example, if I'm
on the any of the page, there is already
a menu as well, right? Menu in the
section for all the pages. And
yes,
do you do you mean by that I need to add
that explicitly for each and every page
layout because homepage will be only one
content area where I don't have
sidebars. In your example, you had the
sidebar of menu, but I would like to
have it on the top navigation rightly.
ly the way you are showing
right on the check out page only I will
show the main content page PLP with the
filters on the left side right side it
will be the list of the products
uh just just a second so we are talking
about this container right uh this uh
this block
container exactly yeah this container
absolutely
yeah uh as you may see that u right now
whenever page we are uh landed to this
uh container exist on all the pages so
if I go to orders
Uh
okay. It exists my profile.
Uh address books it exists on every
page. Yes.
Yeah. On every page. And the reason for
that is that it was uh the definition
for this block it was added uh to the uh
page uh to the page folder. So whenever
you have added to the page folder, it
will be applied uh for all the pages.
Absolutely.
Uh while if we are talking about import
um this one no we don't have import here
imports folder in the imports folder
uh okay here imports folder it means
that I have uh prepared a uh
uh uh definition how I would like my
product grid to be displayed.
Mhm.
I've defined the layout and some some
added some models and so on. Okay. Then
if I would like to reuse uh this uh uh
template and this layout across in
different pages then let me I have
copied that one.
Uh okay. And here I have some uh some
let me open to be a bit wider.
Uh oh here. So I have some page uh under
I have a default uh yeah not quite good
example. One second. Oh this one is a
good example. So I have a default uh uh
a default theme. Here it is. And I have
a root or uh products previously
purchased products. So whenever I will
be on previously purchased products
route, I will pick up uh the layout for
the uh Oro products grid from the one
that was defined in a imports folder and
simply reuse it. So here I am just
importing it but the definition is
provided in a imports folder uh under or
product grid uh folder. Yeah. And in
this case u as another we have a
customer page u some uh uh so on a
customer page uh we have let's pick up
uh yeah don't see it so we customer page
I mostly
uh it is related to the
to this part uh if I am not mistaken one
second to this part uh on a customer
page which we are rendering this blog
and we are simply we have defined that
on a customer uh this customer page
should contain this accounts um sidebar
and we are simply importing that uh uh
for the this particular root or front
end customer user address previously
purchased here you are this is the one
we were just checking so it contains the
grid uh which was imported from the from
that folder plus it contains uh customer
uh customer related blocks like this
one. Yeah. And with that we would we do
not need to copy paste uh uh the same
grid definition uh but just simply
import u in one place and then reuse uh
in others.
Yeah, understood. We can derive the any
existing layout in other pages just
using the import functionality. You mean
directly?
Uh sorry, could you repeat? You mean we
can derive any functionality which is
already to exist like product grid
functionality rather than copying whole
code again into that customer section
area we can just use that grid.
Yes.
And plug that and as the import that ID
so it will automatically
derive that. Okay. Understood. Thanks.
And usually actually this is the u the
flow it is used. We have a grid and we
have it already defined you
it suits to you. So it satisfies your
requirements how yeah how it looks like
and then you can simply reuse this grid
uh on uh introduce your other um grid
you would like but simply for the grid
you would like uh just uh you will have
the template what will be missing for
the grid is what kind of uh source of
the grid uh to to to be provided. you
would need to specify data grid name and
data grid name will pick up what kind of
entity u you would like to present uh
and that's it. So you have the layout
structure and you are simply you are
reusing it but simply providing the grid
name you would like to render and data
goes to the layout and you have the uh
grid uh displayed u on your page.
Got it. Thank
the next question. Are blocks cached or
not cached by default? By default, they
are not cached.
Uh, yep, that's it.
Kind of on the on the caching side.
Um,
what is the
out of the box like the stuff that's on
the page by default. So the main
navigation, some of the other sort of
static components, are those all cached
and invalidated out of the box? We you
don't have to go in and try and
performance optimize the out of the box
experience.
Yeah. So out of the box they are not
cached. So if you would like to cache,
you would need to to enable cache for
the block you would like to cache uh and
invalidate and like track uh in what
cases you would like to invalidate uh uh
the cache for the layout uh layout
block.
Okay, so the default theme does zero
caching out of the box.
There is no like uh
what kind of caching you uh so
I was just thinking you were talking
about oh if I add a new custom thing you
know a new block or whatever I can
specify that to cache
right now I'm looking at a navigation
bar that comes with Oro out of the box I
haven't customized anything is that
navigation block cached
right now or is that uncashed until we
add customization to make it cache.
Uh out of the box it is not cached. Uh
okay.
All right. That's all I want to know. I
just was trying to figure out from a
performance perspective if day one when
we install Aura we have to go through
and add a bundle just to optimize it out
of the box. And it sounds like we may
have to do that. Mhm. Yeah. I would
start optimizing if you really face with
the uh with the issue that you see that
u page load stacks uh and uh the reason
for that you have like some complex data
uh it is fetched anytime you are uh like
navigating the website and you would
like to uh make it optimal just cache
and just bring the the whole layout from
the cache. That's it. At this moment you
are just uh investigating checking that
the reason for that is this navigation
menu for instance uh and specifically
for the navigation menu which is the
bottleneck uh you are adding cache for
this uh for the ID of this uh of this
block.
Okay. Yeah. I just was trying to figure
out sort of the out of the box
considerations for caching. It sounds
like you kind of it should be performant
enough without it is the is the idea.
Yes. Mhm. It should be performed. Yeah.
This um starts to be actual when you
have like some complex data maybe some
conditions which rely I don't know on
some
uh complex logic. Um yeah and to avoid
this uh you simply have this uh uh data
just cached and provided. No interaction
with the database, no complex
computations, just provided the the
layout with the uh with the templates
and that's it.
Okay.
Uh can we render custom blocks inside
content pages? Uh okay. So uh custom
blocks inside content pages. Uh
Vladimir, are you referring uh to uh
to this part um admin?
Uh yeah, I I have a page and example
homepage.
Mhm. And uh we want to render somewhere
custom custom block with um customer
info for product details.
Mhm. Okay. So um Okay. So you are
referring to marketing uh landing pages.
Uh my
one second I was changing uh one second
I will switch back to the
to the dev mode uh to the production
mode.
Okay. For managing content, we have uh
this marketing
uh landing pages, right? And
yeah, for the landing pages, we are
defining uh what kind of
content should be presenting on a on a
landing page. And with that uh the
the content which is uh uh provided here
it is uh it could be built of certain uh
certain blocks which are listed here.
You see that uh content widgets uh
content blocks uh some u some other
stuff and in your case you would like uh
have a not customization but you would
like here to what I understand to
introduce
uh some additional information
for instance on this landing page and uh
what would be the source uh of that
information uh from where you would like
to fetch it or what should be
yeah uh so what Uh what I want I I have
a custom template
block and I want to render it here
inside of the page error.
Mhm.
Um okay. But for that I would recommend
you to use uh this content blocks. Uh so
you will be like managing the same uh
the same part for content block. May I
set custom template?
uh possible.
Yeah, you can introduce uh
you can introduce uh a template and then
we use it. Uh what was that? Yeah, here
is the templates uh which already uh
goes out of the box like one column
banner uh like this one, some slider uh
for the categories uh some predefined u
templates. So if uh those which are use
which are listed here do not do not work
for you for sure you can like introduce
your own template and then uh yeah based
on that template you are introducing a
content block right uh for the I don't
know featured products or some customer
details right and then going to the uh
landing pages
you are simply then using this uh
content block. Uh here you are
specifying uh for instance here I would
like
uh to add
content block uh this one and I'm
specifying uh what kind of content block
which we created before we would like to
list in the l landing pages.
Will it uh does it work for you or you
were referring to another example?
No, it's fine. I got the idea. So, we
need to set up a list of predefined
templates and then
um reuse it inside of blocks.
Uh maybe uh you can uh
you can describe uh some words about
widgets if it's Oh. If it is done not
not quite a topic but uh of this but
yeah for managing okay just briefly I
can explain. So for managing the content
you have um this content
you could have like content uh blocks
right uh and you then embed those blocks
uh to the landing pages uh somewhere.
Another thing u or embedding to the
landing pages could be uh this uh
content widgets and content widgets uh
there are few types uh five like uh yeah
five types of content widgets which
could be which goes out of the box. For
instance, you would like to have a
slider, right? you define um so whenever
you are selecting a content widget you
would need to it will have like its own
options to be uh to be defined for the
widget and for the slider we would need
to have uh how many items you would like
to show to scroll what is the for each
individual slide we adding slides uh
images uh for those slides this is for
slide number one with some description
slide number two with some description
and so on. So you have this uh widget
widget is a slider and then you add this
uh widget to the landing page and you
will have a slider listed there. Uh do
we have this homepage slider? So we
already have a slider and it was uh
added to if we go here we should have
usages. Yeah. So it is used in a content
page slider
uh content block. So we embedded widget
to the content block. Then we have we
are able to pass this uh content block
to the landing pages. Okay, let's
quickly add here and I will um
one second
widgets. Uh
okay
content blocks.
No landing pages.
I will pick up uh this one.
Edit.
Okay, you have a content widget. Then
you go and you add it to the landing
page.
I will add a content uh widget. This one
the cup slider. Okay. And I will locate
it
somewhere here.
I want to the to the very top. Okay. So
I have added save.
Now if I go to the content uh widgets
slider, this slider is used not only in
some of the content blocks which we do
not care about but also on the landing
pages. So let me go to this landing
page.
Okay.
And this is the slider I guess which we
we've just added. Oops. Sorry.
And uh
the so having uh this content widgets
some clients uh prefer to use them uh a
lot. Uh
you see that we have like uh five types
like yeah five types of uh this content
widgets. But uh there is quite rich
documentation how you can uh add new
content widget. You would need to
introduce some service, tag it properly.
U then you will have it listed here and
also define the options uh for the
content widget. Uh like here we have
selected uh tab content. You have one
options uh product segment and other
options. So you have service responsible
for the widget, you have options and
then you would need to have a template
uh how to render this content widgets
and just use that's it.
This is in short more documentation
uh more is listed in documentation how
to create content widgets.
Okay.
Yeah. Just for the reference
as I mentioned we have like a class
responsible for the widget.
uh some uh form type for the options
and uh then template uh somewhere else
here is the template. Yeah. And create
the template.
I will put it here just for reference.
Okay.
Uh let's uh switch back to question and
answers. We do not have any other
questions related to themes and layouts.
Uh I would say so just to understand it
uh properly uh I would recommend to
uh to check it uh using codebase. So you
have a theme you go to this theme you
add some block remove some block and see
the changes how it works. you add some
styles without that uh yeah
it will be much easier to understand
using code and performing changes from
there and seeing the results. Yeah. And
always keep in mind this this Symfony
toolbar u helps a lot to understand the
structure and um understand um what kind
of block you would like you would like
uh to change where it is located what
kind of options it has.
Okay, let's make uh uh so we have like
one
let's started at so three hours already
passed right uh from the beginning of
our training let's take uh on what we
have for today customer entities okay
products master catalog okay let's make
20 minutes break and then
uh
continue with the customers customer
entities Okay, meet you in 20 minutes.
[Music]
Okay guys, I
suggest to continue. Hope all of you
already had a break and ready to
continue.
So the next topic is uh customer
entities.
So we checked about u um the part
related to storefront, how we can set up
uh websites, how we can customize our
website to have different skin. Now
let's uh check it from an angle. who
actually goes to the uh to the website
and purchases products. What of what
kind of entities uh it contains
and it contains of the customer entity
which is actually uh a company. Think
about customer as a company uh with
which you are doing business business
with. uh customers could be uh combined
into groups and this is a customer group
which is responsible for that for
managing
uh grouping those customers. Uh each
customer or company uh might have uh
users uh which are called customer users
which actually goes to the websites and
interacts with the websites. These are
registered users which belong to the
company customer user roles. So each
user may have some role uh and um the
role has some permissions and this is
how we can limit what is allowed for the
customer user what is not. And another
entity this is a customer visitor which
is
uh responsible for
tracking u uh user interaction before
user is uh become becomes a registered
user. So this is for guest users entity
and let's go over them one by one and
check how it works. So customers they
represent a company. You might have one
company and actually company or division
of the company which buys product using
orcommerce website. Uh you might have uh
this
companies whom you are doing business
with like u one company or you can also
u make a hierarchy of companies. Imagine
you have like a global company you work
with plus some subsidiaries which are
child customers of the of the global
company of the global customer
and with that you will have uh this
hierarchy parent child hierarchy
customer c parent customer and child
customers and it will also
defining in this way will also help you
to uh to keep tracking the activities of
the of the company,
not only the global one but all those um
subsidiaries listed on the main company.
Uh their orders uh their shopping list
they will be and other orders uh they
will also be available for the global uh
from the global company. Uh
and it also u uh useful to use uh this
parent child relations whenever you
would like to set up some um specific u
uh payment rules uh shipping methods uh
which will be available for the global
company and then will be reused uh by uh
subsidiaries of this uh global company
you work with. customers has address
which might be of different types like
shipping uh billing address the address
itself if Google map um integration is
enabled. So it works uh uh for the
addresses and customers are managed both
uh from the could be managed from both
from the back office and from the
storefront. I will uh demonstrate in a
minute. And each customer can have u
some sales representative assigned.
under sales representative. I mean uh
some back office user which is
responsible for uh for tracking customer
activities related to the uh to the
purchases and uh
the sales representative
out of the box uh is uh notified when uh
in some cases notified when the orders
if I'm not mistaken is created or other
activities but you can reuse it and
notify
assigned sales representative for other
cases you would like to be him to notify
and let's go uh to the back office and
check from there how it looks like
okay I have logged into the back office
uh to the back office all that stuff
related to the customers is uh located
under customers uh this menu item so
customers we have like a plenty uh
several U entities listed here. We are
talking right now about customers. So
here are the customers out of the box.
Uh not out of the box with demo data. We
do already have some of them. Uh let's
go to create customer.
Uh the key point is uh to list the name
of the customer. Uh it um might be
assigned to to the account. Um we will
cover this u u uh we will cover this uh
on the day four uh how uh this accounts
work um uh for the customers and what
kind of what what account is let's skip
it for now this is how we are able to
define to what group uh customer
belongs. So clicking on this we have
several customer groups and this is how
we can assign a customer to some
specific group. Uh we have the ability
to specify parent child relation between
customers and here is the field parent
customer. So this is an optional field.
Some internal rating assign assign sales
representative. This is something that I
was talking about. So while assigning so
here are the back office users are
listed here and I can assign any user
which will be
responsible for the customer I am
creating right now text code let's skip
it as I mentioned we have addresses
and we can specify the the address uh
with some uh basic information about
country street and so on and the type of
the address billing shipping and
depending on the address type then it
will be uh used or suggested during the
checkout or while creating an orders. Um
for the fields specifying billing
address uh addresses of the customer
with the billing type will be listed and
for the shipping addresses with the
shipping type will be listed. Okay, of
course we can mark some of the addresses
as a default uh for billing a default
for shipping and addresses. This is a
collection of entities and you may list
as many as you would like uh to have for
the customer but uh yeah separating them
to uh billing or shipping
priceless section let's keep it for now
and uh payment terms as well this is not
relevant for today's topic so we have a
customer with some basic information let
me demonstrate how parent child relation
works so I have a company A here it is
and company A it has some uh
subsidiaries or sub customers or child
customers assigned. Once we have such
parent child relation we will have this
subsidiaries section listed here. Uh and
we have that company A, east division
and west division are assigned to
company uh to company A. And whenever we
have uh the users uh so uh of the
customer
company A the users will be listed here.
And uh by the way if we have like um com
customer users from uh from subsidiaries
they also should be listed here. That's
how we aggregate the data uh related to
the to the company. And this is one of
the benefits of using uh parent child
relation rather than introducing
separate uh company a uh east division
without assigning to the company a as a
child one price list request for code.
So you see that entities those which are
related to the purchase process of the
of users they are aggregated under the
main customer
orders and and other stuff.
Uh as we were talking about u websites
website can have their own configuration
same is applicable for the uh customers.
So customer may have its own
configuration which overrides the
website configuration and overrides the
uh global configuration. So if I click
configuration
uh it opens uh a page with the
configuration but uh the difference is
that number of options is uh not quite
big. So just uh changing the main
navigation menu for the we we are
allowed out of the box I mean for the
company A um so instead of using this
commerce main menu we can introduce
another menu specific uh relevant for
this company A and assign it here and we
have some uh product uh
uh specific either we allow to export
grids uh products or Not uh there were
cases which I faced with when for the
number of options uh were change were
extended for the uh for the c uh for the
customer that are available uh and uh
yeah and then used in application u
uh to uh provide some specific behavior
for certain comp uh company or
customers.
Uh okay, let's uh continue and
customers. Uh let me pick up here. So
for managing customers, you can create
them uh using this uh create customer.
You can use API uh endpoints to create
uh also to create customers. Uh and
another thing is you can use import
functionality
uh for uh creating a bulk of uh
customers just downloading a template
and using plus you are able to speed up
uh the process of u u on boarding and
setting up uh customers using uh
customer addresses using this
functionality import for customer
addresses.
Uh
okay.
Uh let me switch back to slides. Um
and let's check the example related to
sales representative which is assigned
to customer. So here is a link u and u
so whenever we have a customer um a
customer which has some sales
representative
uh here is one of the examples how it is
used uh so we are in the method for
notifying uh sales representative we are
simply fetching uh this sales
representative and
also checking whether we should notify
and in the final results. Okay, we are
notifying
uh in this particular case I am just uh
demonstrating we are notifying uh sales
representative uh when for the request
for quotes. We will be covering request
for quotes and this is
uh the part which is related for
notifying customer user uh sales
representative.
Okay. And yeah, you may reuse it u
similar notifications pray your needs.
[Music]
Okay, let's continue. Customer groups.
So, uh for organizing a customer into
certain groups, we have this customer
group entity.
Having a customer group entity
is useful when we have uh some common uh
functionality or common uh features to
be enabled for the whole group. uh for
those u uh
functionality that I was just uh uh
referring to is meant some payment
settings, some shipping methods, u some
uh tax uh rates which may be common for
customer groups. Uh specifically the
most actually use cases is whenever we
have some prices which should be common
for the uh for the whole group. Yeah.
And in this case,
this is good to combine customers into
groups.
Uh let's uh go to
uh customers and um select pick up uh
customer groups.
So uh we have uh four with demo
demonstration data. The
uh there are regular ones like this all
customers, partners, wholesale customers
and uh this is the one uh nonificated
visitors. This is the
uh group uh which is uh used for guest
users. Uh so uh whenever we have a guest
user
like here we have some uh
u anonymous guest guest customer user.
It was uh assigned this uh to this group
uh just to have like some common uh
functionality uh shared uh not
functionality maybe restrictions uh or
permissions shared uh between the all
the guests. So that's the the reason of
combining them onto the separate
non-authenticated visitors group. Okay,
let me pick up uh let me go to
customers. While creating the customer
group uh specifying the owner which is a
um back office user
uh the name of the uh
okay test customer group text code let's
keep it and uh while creating we the
group we can pick up uh the
customers which should belong to the uh
to the group uh by uh clicking these uh
check boxes.
priceless. Let's skip it. Yeah, that
that's that's actually it regarding
customer groups. Uh while uh so whenever
we have a customer um it could be
assigned only to single uh customer
group. So there is no out of the box
ability to assign uh different uh to to
assign the same customer to different
groups
depending on your needs. It could be
like this combining into into groups. It
could be handled by separate uh
functionality. Usually segments are used
for that purpose. So when it comes to to
the question how one of the options how
to organize u uh this many to many
relation between customer and groups it
could be organized we using u segments
creating a segment which will contain u
a segment for the uh for the customer
like specifying here customer
It actually doesn't matter and having a
segment then we can u and segment will
combine uh customers uh like have like a
combination of customers um aggregated
under uh specific segment and then the
segment could be used for
um
uh for limiting access for providing
specific settings but this is something
that is used as a customization I using
the segments uh for combining uh
customers into groups. Okay.
Uh okay, then let's continue.
Uh
yeah. And uh
we have a customer group. We can assign
uh some specific uh uh prices to the
whole group. And then those prices will
be shared and uh displayed uh for all
customers of the group. And here is a
listed alternative approach of u using
groups
specifically customer segments.
Yeah. And as I mentioned one uh customer
uh single customer could be assigned to
single uh customer group.
Okay. We have a customer which is a
company. Uh we have a customer groups
which groups companies with similar
behavior. Now we have users which are
actually uh real persons which actual
persons which act on behalf of the
customer on behalf of the c the company
and uh they actually goes to the uh they
go to the website and orders some
products.
Uh so for assigning uh customers uh to
the uh
uh uh users sorry to the uh to the
customers we have the ability to do it
while creating a customer user or while
creating a customer. Let's I will
demonstrate it in a moment. Uh each
individual customer user may have some
uh actually it should have some
permissions. So imagine you have like uh
several employees of the C of the
company, right? And one of them is
uh has uh more u u permissions u to
uh to go to the website and uh order
products. while another buyer has
limited permissions and is not allowed
to purchase for instance some u products
of certain type or uh or requires
additional approval from the from the
manager. That's where uh the roles for
the customer user
comes uh
and uh and is used for uh while having a
customer user uh we
um
should spe one of the one of the
required fields for the customer users
is u the email and we can uh while
configuring
our application we can specify uh
whether we would like to use case
sensitive or case insensitive uh user
emails. I will demonstrate in a moment
where to configure it. Let's switch back
to the menu uh to the back office.
Okay, we have a customer
uh customer users. But uh one second
before we go to customer users, I have
not uh mentioned about customer groups
that on a customer group we have u like
this is the the third the fourth level
where uh
settings could be configured. Um so
imagine I go to partners
uh customer group and here I am able to
specify uh like similar options uh for
the partners uh for the partners
customer group using a some different
navigation. So each time we have this
configuration. Uh so first um customer
settings are taken into account then as
a fallback u uh customer groups. If on
customer group nothing is specified no
settings is specified then as a fallback
uh website uh configuration uh level is
used. And uh the the last uh fallback uh
in this chain uh for settings is used u
uh global configuration level like four
levels customer group website and
global.
Okay. Now let's switch to sorry to
customer users. So we have a customer
users we can create using create button.
So first name last name is mandatory.
email uh address mandatory. I will
demonstrate where we can specify either
email address is allowed to be case um
sensitive insensitive. I will go to
global configuration
registration if I'm not mistaken
registration.
Uh, yep. This option is uh responsible
for for that case. Insensitive email
addresses either
uh could be enabled or disabled.
Okay, let's switch back to creation of
the customer user. So filling in uh the
main here is the field which is
responsible for assigning customer user
to the company.
Uh not only customers can have u
specific sales representative
uh assigned but also customer users
might have uh uh a sales representative.
So a back office user assigned uh to to
it and uh
the each
uh user might uh so imagine you have a
company right uh company A uh while uh
within a company A it could be served by
different u websites uh Europe website u
some Canadian website and uh So whenever
we have a company we have a users of
those of that company we are then
limiting to what website uh this
customer user should belong to. Uh so u
this is the field which is responsible
for that u website and this is how we
are restricting access for the user. For
instance, this user is
should be acting only for Canadian
website. That's how we assign it to
Canada website and it will be able to
login only to Canada website to Europe
or any other website. it will not be
able to log in.
Some of the those uh providers uh if I'm
not if I recall correct correctly
authenticating providers will be
checking uh this condition as well and
limiting access if website is not
matching the one that is assigned for
the customer user.
Okay. and creating a web a user. Um the
key point is to have uh to assign some
uh roles for the
uh for the user like uh
the predefined one uh should it be an
administrator with some uh white uh uh
permissions or it should have like
limited uh permissions. It it should be
a buyer. Of course you can introduce
more roles and depending on those roles
create customer users. Uh so remember
company could have billing and shipping
addresses. On the other hand side, uh
user itself can have addresses uh um
assigned and simply this is the same
form which is used for the company just
reused for the customer user. uh similar
to the uh customer it might have
customer user might have a collection of
uh addresses and similar
uh to the customer uh addresses specify
what kind of type it should be billing
or shipping. Remember it will be then uh
used while suggesting
uh an address uh during a checkout or
while creating an order uh suggesting an
address to use for billing or shipping.
Okay. So we have a customer we have a
customer user.
Let's switch back here. So we are able
to similar to what we checked for the
customer we are able to import uh just
to speed up uh to import uh both users
and uh user addresses just download a
template and import
and what else I would like to okay uh so
here you may see uh
several flags um which uh uh customer
user have uh entity uh has sorry enabled
confirmed and uh guest
in short. So whenever we have uh uh
customer user enabled u it will be able
to uh log to the application and u uh
yeah navigate as a registered user. Uh
if this u flag is uh disabled it will
not be able to login.
uh mainly. Yeah, if you would like to
remove some of the users uh uh which is
not an employee anymore, just keep uh uh
keep its entity uh in the system for
reference in a orders in a shopping
list. Uh just instead of removing it
fully, you can make it disabled. It will
not be able to login. you will still
have a reference to the users in the uh
related entities.
Whenever user uh goes to the websites
and registered, we are able to specify
either this user should be like
confirmed automatically or we would like
to have like a additional step uh his
confirmation using email or other uh uh
or other options
and uh only after user is um confirmed
then this flag is uh is enabled.
And guest flag is used uh for those
cases. Whenever we have u
a a user which is uh a guest one which
is uh not kind of u which is registered
in application but not belongs to uh to
any uh customer. Uh on the other hand
side it is performing some actions in a
storefront. It is creating a shopping
list. Uh it is going through the
checkout. Uh but this is not uh a
regular customer user. But for those
entities which is u which this
user is uh creating we do need to have a
customer user. So that's how we identify
with this flag. Um uh so we need to have
an entity uh for
for the shopping list for the checkout
customer user entity but this is not yet
a registered uh customer user and uh
having this flag specified to yes uh
guest. Yes, we are having an entity
which is required for uh as I mentioned
for the shopping list for the for the
checkout but on the other hand side this
is not like a uh regular customer user
and of course then it could be
transferred to the to the registered
fully registered customer user.
Okay.
Uh let me switch back.
Okay. Customer users they have a
collection of addresses which might be
billing or shipping. Uh and we can
manage uh customers uh from uh back
office and from the
storefront. I will demonstrate right
now. This is something that I wanted
also to demonstrate regarding customers
and we have checked that we can have
some back office user uh to be assigned
as a sales representative of the
customer user and some other example how
this assigned
notify.
Yeah. And in this case this is customer
user uh which is also used for
for sending uh notification
for the request for for proposal for the
request for quote.
Okay let me go to uh to the storefront.
So in the back office we are able to
create uh these entities users uh
customers group uh customers
into groups. Let's check from the um
from the storefront
what we can do with the
with the customers. Let me log in uh in
customer users. I have logged in uh to
the
storefront as Amanda Cole. Uh
let me go to account and here
we may see what kind of uh
things are available
sorry for managing uh uh customer and u
customer user. So I am able first of all
to list this information. Um I am able
to list uh the information related to
the addresses by the way because I have
I am granted this permissions. I am able
to uh to list to have this information
uh here listed. Plus I am in this case I
am also granted not only to list but
also to perform actions over addresses
like edit or delete address and I can go
to addresses.
I could add new addresses. So similar to
what we had seen from the back office
and now I am able to create uh some
address uh uh
uh from the storefront.
Okay.
And
these are by the way the addresses which
are uh related to this part which are
related to customer user. And here we
also have a list of uh addresses uh
related to the company or customer. And
this specific uh user as u amend the
call as it has uh the permissions u to
manage company addresses also uh he she
can also create uh company addresses.
Okay, let's switch to my profile. What
other things could be performed? We can
edit profile like changing uh to what uh
customer um this uh user is assigned to
change some basic information change
password
and uh one second
and and and that's it and about roles I
will talk a bit later uh yeah and users
so I am also able to list u users of the
uh all users of of the company I belong
to with an ability to uh
perform following actions like editing
some resetting password disabling the
user. So both could be performed from
the back office as you may see and here
from the storefront.
And the key point is also create uh new
uh customer users and assign to uh to
the
to the to the company.
Okay, let's continue.
And registration process. So
registration process. So yeah we have
like uh we can we are able to set up
company and users from the back office.
Uh but that would require uh some
administrator to go to fill in or to
import that data or we can allow allow
users u companies to register on their
own. And for that we have this customer
user registration flow available
and some configuration options which
manages uh
what u
fields should be filled in uh whether
confirmation is required or not.
uh let's check right now I will uh first
of all go to configuration and
demonstrate how registration.
Okay, here is the options uh settings
related to customer user registration.
Whenever we have a uh user created to
whom uh whom uh this order uh sorry this
u customer should be uh assigned who
should be assigned uh who who should be
the owner of the of the customer who is
just registering on its own. Then we can
um simply disable um the ability to to
register uh customer and customer users
through the storefront. Let's
demonstrate. I will sign out right now.
We see we have a register
this link and a registration form. If
you click on the link for instance um in
certain cases I would not like my uh
users to register on their own. I will
go to here to registration market not
allowed. Okay, I will refresh the page.
Register icon uh link uh is hidden. If I
refresh a page uh just trying to access
the same uh form uh like hacking the
URL, I should be not allowed. So I am
not allowed. I'm just redirected to the
sign in uh window. Okay, let me
uh reenable
save settings whether we
should have a confirmation required. Uh
with that the email is sent and user
would need to confirm his email
uh in the email box. uh we can disable
and newly created user uh um sorry
registered user will be created uh uh
and confirmed automatically. Show
registration link. It simply will hide
registration link. Some auto login
settings require company name. Let's we
pick up here.
In some cases register. So this is the
registration form and these are the
mandatory fields to be filled on. In
some cases there is no need to specify
company name but simply use maybe first
name and last name as the company name.
So we may disable it here. Require
company name.
Okay. So the form has changed. No
company name uh fields
and registration instructions. One
second. I will reenable.
Yeah, we can specify registration
instructions. And here are the
instructions. Uh they should be
somewhere listed uh here. Registration
second
uh show registration instructions. Mhm.
I don't recall to be honest. Uh
uh where this need to check. I will
check uh this instructions. One second.
Mhm.
Offen login page. Okay.
Yeah, here they are. So um so in some
cases, yeah, I recollected we can
disable registration and instead of
registration, we are just uh simply
displaying the instructions how uh user
can uh register uh on the website. So
here are the instructions. Okay, let's
uh quickly check uh
uh how registration process work.
I will specify some demi email,
some password and create an account.
So with that I have uh
created a customer and customer user
uh in the back office. So if I go to
customers,
I have registered on my own and here is
the uh customer company which was
created
um just right now and it automatically
created also a customer user and
assigned it to this u uh newly created
customer. And here are the
the customer user which was just created
as you may notice. So this customer user
is not confirmed. So confirmation uh is
uh set to uh no for it and uh yeah user
need to go to the u
email box and u confirm his email from
there.
Okay,
let's continue.
Yeah. And you have listed we have
checked a bunch of options how this uh
registration process uh can be changed
in configuration.
Uh now let's switch uh back to
permissions of the uh customer users. So
permissions of the customer users they
are managed by customer user role.
uh
let's go to the back office
and I will demonstrate.
So we have a customer and here we have a
list of customer user roles
uh defined in the system. So we have a
user and some specific role should be
assigned to him. Imagine we have a user
uh this one Amanda Cole. I was just uh
navigating the website. Uh let's check
here.
Okay, I have a customer user amener
and we may notice that it has a role
administrator. Now let's go and check uh
what this role means.
I will pick up administrator
and here is a bunch of u entities and
permissions which are set up those
individual entities like checkout
whether I am able to view
u to create checkout to edit checkout
just as an example and all uh storefront
related entities are listed here and
some of the things uh disabled like here
editing a quote u so it is disabled. So
we have this entity related permissions
and plus we have uh
uh some permissions which are not
related to the entity itself but rather
to some performing some actions like
here uh for the checkout uh either we
are allowing administrator to enter
billing address manually from the
checkout or shipping address and so on
to use u the ability to use quick order
Chrome like that and some permissions
related to the workflows. If we click
edit
and check
uh what kind of levels the permission
could have. Uh
um so now I am demonstrating an order an
order entity for the administrator.
and uh permission to view orders. Uh so
with that um we have like four uh four
different levels. So level none will
which which will mean that we are not
allowing to view orders uh at all for
administrator with the level uh with the
level user. I will be only to see uh
those uh
uh orders uh which are owned by me which
were just created or placed uh by me u
Amanda Cole. If I set up as a u
type of this permission department, I
will see not only my own uh orders
created by me but also by other users of
my uh of my department of my
subsidiary. And the last level is just
the the the higher the higher
permissions the higher the wider
permissions is to corporate level. It it
will means that I will be able to see
all orders created not only by uh
company I am assigned to subsidiary I am
assigned to but also all uh orders of uh
of my global uh company uh uh uh I am
assigned to.
Okay, this is the the difference between
different levels
and for
difference with the uh with the buyer
role. Uh we may check that. Okay, I will
better view
and here I will go to the view page. It
will be more
Um
so you may see what kind of entities are
and permissions over them are enabled
and for the buyer you see that like um
several of them are disabled and not
available uh some permissions like here
uh as an example buyer is not able to
uh to create uh uh to create new
customer users or is not able to create
uh customer user address
and other other things.
Let me demonstrate in the back office.
Uh okay, we have Amanda. I will sign in.
So, Amanda is an administrator
and
it has a role administrator role.
administrator uh can manage
uh the role uh not only its own role but
also um manage buyer role. So we have
checked it from the back office. On the
other hand side in the storefront me as
a uh customer user. Uh I am also able to
edit uh via role
and
restrict access. For instance, I would
like to uh disallow enter uh billing
address and shipping address manually
for this.
I will save the changes
and with that a new role will be
created.
Here we have a system role which is
predefined
and uh while creating this uh while
editing a predefined role a new role is
created it is called customizable. Let's
check what kind of
uh what kind of permission it has all
the same permissions but uh with
disabled uh enter billing and enter
shipping address and I can assign this
role to to some of the specific customer
users. I would like them to forbid to
not allow enter billing and shipping
address
and from the back office. So whenever we
have like a new role created it will be
also listed in the back office. It is
marked as customizable and it also
indicates uh uh of what uh to what
customer this role uh belongs to. So it
was created uh by user from company A.
That's why we have this reference to
company A for this particular role uh by
a customizable. Yeah.
[Music]
Okay. And let me demonstrate that
actually u buyer has uh less access than
less permissions that u administrator. I
will pick up one of the
uh I guess this one
brand. Uh it is a buyer. I will log in
as brand.
Sign out.
Sign in.
So I have logged in as brand. If I go to
account, I still able to
uh change my uh
u my profile um
some of the fields. But if I go to the
address book, uh I am not able to uh
create a new address for the company.
I'm not able to create even addresses
for uh for myself. And remember we have
checked it in the rows that it was
disabled for the
uh for the buyer.
Yeah. And use
uh use roles uh to limiting access to
limiting u some features or capabilities
uh for certain types of users. Okay. And
another entity we have uh so we have a
customer user but also we have a
customer visitor which actually
represent guest user um in a in a
system. It is not uh uh the this entity
or the records of this entity they are
not available in a back office uh just
in a database and uh it simply logs u uh
what kind of
session ID at what time well yeah this
one this is the entity actually let's
check here
um so this is the table where the entity
is uh the records of the visitors is
stored. It has some uh last visit, some
session ID just to to have a reference
and to to pick up
uh
the data which was um which was created
within the same session. Um if uh
visitor is then transferred to the
customer user uh and becomes a
registered um visitor will also contain
a reference to the through this uh field
to the customer user
and I guess that's it u related to this
uh visitor.
So actually this is like a starting
point for the guest users. Uh whenever
they are navigating to the website they
are recorded to this table with the
visit session ID. Then
if user is converted to the registered I
mean visitor sorry is converted to the
registered uh user then we will have
this reference and it will appear as a
registered uh customer user in the back
office.
Uh oops.
Okay. And yeah, it's mostly useful for
for starting a checkout. U so in this
case, we would need to have as I
mentioned before. So check out this is
an entity which requires to have a
customer user uh relation and uh as it
requires then we would need to have this
uh customer user entity created and for
particular visitor uh we will have this
uh user created but with the guest uh uh
cl uh set to yes uh so it will it will
have like limited uh permissions but on
the mint side will
meanwhile we will have this
data in place uh I mean the check out
created and we will be able to to track
this process from the back office.
Okay. And a couple of best practices.
Uh so both uh customer and customer
groups they uh can be used for repres to
represent the hierarchy uh in the
in the some sort of hierarchy. Uh so
remember customers can have like parent
child relation and with that we have we
can have like a subsidiary and some top
level companies. Uh on the other hand
side the hierarchy could be organized
using uh groups. We combine some
customers uh under certain group and
assign this uh yeah assign assign single
group to all the customers we would like
to have it to own it. And uh mostly
these groups which we are talking about
they were they used to um to separate
between um
those customers which has some kind of
statuses like this one is listed here.
Bronze silver statues and gold statues.
And uh for instance for uh gold uh
status um customer group you will be uh
providing one uh prices um for other
status u u a bit higher prices will be
listed
uh and customer can be used to represent
specific scope of rock. Um
yeah so they
and uh customer hierarchy yeah as I
mentioned it is um usually represent the
hierarchy which is kind of reflects the
same hierarchy it is in organization
u
I guess that's it
um so before we go to questions and
answers was just brief uh recap, brief
summary. Uh
now we have started to talk about those
u entities which are actually performing
uh purchases in a storefront and to them
uh belongs customers which represent an
organization. Then onto the customers we
uh have real uh persons who are logging
in and purchasing these are customer
users. Uh customers could be organized
into groups when they own the same
behavior, should own the same behavior,
have the same similar settings under
customer groups. And uh users uh while
uh performing
uh some actions in a in a storefront,
they might have some limited access or
the other has granted more permissions.
Um yeah and it depends on your needs
what uh user uh permission to grant um
or limit access.
Okay, that's it. And now let's switch to
questions and answers.
Um
do we have a possibility to import
export data by chrome? Um so both import
uh and export data they are handled by
uh so-called uh processors which um
includes like several steps. Uh let's
pick up u so we are talking it actually
doesn't matter about what we are
talking. Here we have an import uh uh
form uh and we are specifying the
uh we are specifying the file to use uh
for the import. Once we uh click import
file, we are providing the file to the
processor and this uh processor runs
performs uh three steps. reads the file,
processes the file and writes uh the
outcome out the final results to the
database. Uh with that uh we can reuse
uh uh the same functionality like I'm
demonstrating right now. Reuse and uh
add u
scheduled job
like this one.
um
uh schedule tasks. Uh so you can
introduce your own schedule task. um
maybe with some arguments. Uh for
instance, uh the source of the file
where it is located either on
u the instance uh application is already
running or maybe on some external
uh resource like SFTP.
uh and uh having this uh comment you can
reuse the processor u import process one
of the existing import processors if you
are talking about customer customer
users just reuse uh uh the same service
uh but simply provide for this service
the the source of the file and it will
handle uh
uh by
out ofthe-box logic.
So short answer uh yes it could be uh
used but for that you need first uh have
this uh uh chrome job uh chrome task um
defined uh and second decide what will
be the source of the uh of your data
where it should be located um to be
processed.
Okay. Can we assign payment method to
customer? So customer user may use it.
Um
uh we can assign uh yes in short yes we
can u assign payment method uh depending
on a customer. We can assign depending
on the customer group and we will cover
that in uh
day
uh day four. I will demonstrate how
payment methods could be um configured
per the customer.
Okay. The next u uh
so uh can we assign? Yeah, this I
answered the next question. What are
business customers? Uh business
customers these are you have not or have
you checked it here? Uh I guess it
should not be. Ah yeah it is. It is
already enabled. Okay. this uh this is
the topic we will cover in uh okay on
day four I guess one second on day four
uh on account section. So in short these
are so you can organize uh different u
sales channels. One uh of the sales
channel is using storefront uh when
customer registered registers and goes
um to the website and purchases process
and purchases products. On the other
hand side you might have like uh this
change process organized let's say
offline and for tracking uh offline uh
business customers or companies you are
doing business with this is the
uh where we sorry I was lost
um and this is uh business customer
entities used for and it actually is
enabled via channels. I will demonstrate
it channels. So here we have like two
channels. Customer channel this is
related to
uh commerce part and we have customer
entity and we have sales channel and for
sales channel we have business customer.
Uh
hope I answered uh your questions
otherwise we will we definitely we'll
focus on it in uh day four to change a
customer from one group to another that
has to be done manually. Yeah to change
uh or can be uh can be moved
automatically dependent on certain
rules. Example, if purchases more than X
amount in one month, I got you.
Yep. Out of the box, this should be done
manually. But uh such type of
customization that you've listed. Uh so
we then would have for instance uh this
uh some of the sorry schedule tasks
which will be performed uh uh on some uh
schedule once per day once per month and
we'll pick up customers check uh number
of uh purchases and then simply uh
change the group uh from one to another
out of the box. So manually it should be
short qu short answer it should be
performed manually for automatic um
changes scheduled tasks could be used
but this is customization.
Excellent. Thank you.
If we are migrating customers from other
platform then can we set the same
password to the Oro platform? uh if not
then how Oro can notify those customers
with reset password link. Okay. So
password uh uh there is um the for
security reasons uh it will not be uh
allowed to do the passwords are uh
hashed uh encoded and uh you would not
be able to do this. Uh but what was uh
one second I will check.
Do we have it?
Uh yeah, we have a customization uh for
this part. Uh so selecting u like
introducing uh mass action uh reset
password.
Okay, one second. And I will
demonstrate
very quickly
how it could be achieved
us.
Okay. One of the examples.
Uh so this is a demi data u don't pay
attention on it too much too much so um
introducing mass action for the customer
user so now I have selected like several
customer users going to the mass action
selection I can um click send reset
email and with that it will send uh
reset email for this uh for all this can
select all visible all or all all or all
all visible and u we sent email. This is
actually not a complex thing just
introducing mass action and assigning
this mass action to uh to the customer
user uh data grid.
So one more question so sending this
mass email through the platform is it
allowing are they blocking if there are
thousands of customer then how it is
managing?
Mhm. First of all, um the extension that
I was uh demonstrating uh it do has uh
some limitations u related to the batch
size and uh maximum number of u emails
to be sent in one like iteration. Uh on
the other hand side we do have some
limitations uh uh so again if you are
using or cloud uh for hosting your uh or
commerce application uh or cloud has
some limitations uh to the number of
emails to be sent and but that should be
checked uh like separately. What are the
limitations? They could be like
increased for uh for certain amount of
time. So if you would like to uh perform
u this uh sendings in in a short period
of time. So this could be negotiated. In
short, the extension I was demonstrated
it it already has some limitations and
on top we also do have limitations on or
cloud but that should be I don't really
remember what are the the numbers and
actually they might be negotiated uh
depending on the
um on the license or the contract you
are
okay you sign Okay,
thanks.
Mhm. Uh thank you for the question. So
if we are migrating uh yeah this was I
have uh answered.
Okay.
So we have just speeded up a bit. Uh uh
with the customers
uh I was trying to
to save some time. Previous topics took
a bit more. But now we are more or less
in a in a schedule.
Okay. Maybe you have other questions.
Feel free to ask either by voice
or in chat.
[Music]
Okay then
then let's take u so one second
what do we have for this part aha one
thing uh I forgot to mention so for some
topics we do have uh some exercises
which we uh recommend to path uh just to
have like a better knowledge uh for the
topic that was covered. And for this
customer entities, we have uh an
exercise uh listed here just a pretty
simple one just for you to to go to the
back office and do this clicks do the
settings. I will share this exercise uh
uh after the end of the day with all
other u slides. uh it will be shared in
PDF. Uh so yeah, our recommendation is
to u
to pass it and if you have any questions
uh we can then discuss on the next day
if you have some issues with it.
Okay, then let's make a 10 minutes break
and uh continue with the topic products
and master catalog. See you in 10
minutes.
Okay,
let's uh continue.
And the last topic we have um Sorry.
Yep, we're here.
Okay, thank you. Uh so the last topic we
have for today is uh products and master
catalog. So we have checked uh the
website uh who can purchase uh products.
Now let's check what could be actually
purchased
and this is uh products. So uh out of
the box at Ouro uh we have like three
types of uh products. These are simple
products, configurable products and
product kit. Uh simple product uh you
may
uh you may imagine it as a just real
physical item which uh is has like one
uh variation only. While if we are
talking about configurable product, this
is a product which aggregates several
variants of the same uh several variants
of the uh of the product. I will uh give
an example a bit later. So and product
kit um this is uh also called a bundle
bundled product uh this is a product
which also kind of aggregates uh several
products which are usually uh purchased
uh together and uh this is something
actually u quite new which was
introduced recently in the 5.1 if
mistaken version.
Okay, let's go over all these types one
by one. uh simple product. U
it has uh while if you are creating a
simple product it will have some u
general information some description
um some attributes it u uh that could
that should be specified uh unit of
measures and uh actually we can also
specify the template uh the product
should uh should have while we are
listing it uh on a website. Uh let's uh
start uh checking it.
I will go. So if we are
checking the website uh storefront part.
So here is a
list of products. Um
then if you navigate so it has some u
product name item um SKU uh number um
description some attributes listed here
uh yeah but how it was is actually um
created in a back office let's check
using back office
oops sorry not
admin.
Okay, products uh are listed under the
products menu item and here they are
products.
So here we have a data grid with all
product we have in the system. Uh like
64 records in total. Uh each product has
a rescue, some an image, name. Uh it
should belong to one of the product
families. We will check what product
family is. It can have some status
either it is enabled or disabled. If the
product is disabled, it will not be um
available in the storefront. It can have
some in status related to inventory
um like in stock, out of stock,
discontinued, awaiting
uh awaiting or any other uh custom uh
statuses.
This is something that we will go over
the inventory uh topic. And let's check
uh create uh product uh page. So if we
are creating I've mentioned uh we can
have several types simple and
configurable. The way uh the reason we
do not see here product kit is that u on
this certain application uh this type of
product is disabled. Okay we have a
simple and configurable.
I will create a simple
int product family
we will check and specify in what
category this is optional actually in
what category this uh uh product should
to what category this product should
belong
okay I'll pick up this one continue
after passing this first step we are
able to then specify more details uh of
the product the SKU name. Um,
okay, let me pick up test one.
Let me put test one.
Okay, status enabled
featured or not. These are is featured
or new arrival. These are like
flags which could be then used for uh
filtering uh products and presenting uh
in certain sliders uh um
in certain segments.
Uh
okay the brand um it represents this is
a relation to the brand entity. So each
product might belong uh to some brands
and brands uh this
is a separate uh entity like here we
have two two brands acme and default and
as an optional thing you can assign
product to a brand
uh unit of quantity. So we may sell uh
products out of the box in um units like
each hour item uh kilograms pieces sets
and uh we can have uh them let me pick
up item uh also we can have like
additional units in which product could
exist. Uh for instance uh we can have
this in uh sets and um
in sets um this product and we define
the conversion rate uh between main uh
unit of quantity and uh additional unit.
So imagine uh I will admit
imagine I would like to have a set which
contains of 10 items and depending uh
either this unit should be u visible in
a uh front storefront for picking up
sets of uh test one product. uh this
flag is used for. So if we enable it uh
the uh unit of measure will also be
available in the storefront. So it means
that this is a sellable unit. Then user
will be able to pick up uh this product
in not only item unit of quantity but
also in sets text code. Let's keep it
for now. Uh short description uh pretty
obvious. This is a what you see is what
you get kind of field. Uh plus it is a
localizable. So you can uh specify
uh different values for the for
different localizations uh and either
inherit from the uh default one which is
listed here or specify some uh custom um
value for the short description. Uh then
we also had have a long description
which is description which is also
uh uh which is also localizable. Uh but
uh this field you can uh prepare a
content for uh using this greatjs editor
similar to what we have for the content
uh blocks or landing pages. Just pick up
some text.
[Music]
Okay.
Uh then images. Um this is
uh the the field the the form for uh
filling in uh what uh product images
has. And there are few types which are
available out of the box main list and
an additional
uh
let's pick up uh one of them.
Okay.
Add image
one. So only one uh image could be as a
main one and only one could be as a
listing uh listing image. So the main
one is on a PDP and listing. This is
something that is listed on the uh
listing page and additional fields.
These are the images which are available
in a uh
in a slider uh
when you're checking more details uh of
the
where you're checking more images of the
of the same product.
Um on the in the design section you have
the ability to specify of what kind of
uh template uh the product u
in what template the product should be
rendered. So right now we are using
configuration uh settings from the
website configuration. Let me uncheck
it. And um here you may notice what kind
of out of the box templates we have uh
for the product details page like short
page, two columns page, some list page.
Uh yeah, you may check the difference
between them and choose the one that it
suits uh for you better. The inventory
options, we will not cover uh them uh
today uh prices as well. And I guess
that's all uh mandatory fields I would
like to have.
Okay. Once the product is uh created
then and if it is enabled then it should
become available in a storefront.
I will enable consumers to index
products.
Okay. Let's go here.
I test
um okay
and the product is um listed uh in a
search results. Let me demonstrate it
here. Set the search test. So I search
results. It is listed in the product
listing page. Uh price we have not
specified. Uh remember I have checked
that I would like to sell products in
items and also in additional units like
here set okay then uh then I'm able
actually to add this product to the
shopping list. uh I am able to view
details and the one uh image we
specified as the main is listed here and
list in uh is as an additional one and
both of them are available um in this
slider uh as additional uh
images of the of this product
and description
[Music]
with a typo by the way. Okay, this is
how we created a simple product. Um, if
you would like to u to introduce a
template, another template u this is
um
u this is something that could be u done
by you using customization. So
introducing another template and just
using it across uh across uh all
products you have in a system or for
some specific products only using this
design uh design template uh design
settings. But usually it is enough to
have uh those the one which goes out of
the box. And um for the product um this
is the entity uh product entity we
always refer to it to check what kind of
option uh fields it owns.
Uh yeah but for sure this could be
extended. We will check it uh later.
Okay. Uh product entity and
let's uh continue.
Uh so
when when we were checking uh product u
uh product u fields we have
stopped that u short description and
long description and I mentioned uh that
they are localizable fields. Uh so
having this localizable fields is
organized using and by the way product
name is also a localizable field. Uh but
as this is of type u string uh it is
this is text rich text uh that's why
this form is uh
represented in this way but uh for
simple values uh localizable fields are
presented using this icon clicking on it
I can uh specify uh the values for
different localizations I have in a
system remember we like all these ones
enabled. They can u specify some
specific for Canada and so on. Just
unchecking and using not the default one
but uh uh a specific one.
Okay. And uh the entity uh which is uh
uh responsible for product name you may
check here. This is product name entity
under or a product product name table.
Uh what is uh so it actually extends
from the um abstract localizable
fallback value. Uh this is the value
which is uh sorry this is the um the
class uh
all uh localizable values extend from
and it simply uh contains the uh
reference to the string
and reference to the product.
uh how it is picked up. What's that?
Okay. So, this is the product entity
which we which we we were checking and
um it defines the
uh the reference to the product name
entity and what kind of uh uh
configuration u this uh field has.
Nothing really special.
um one of the default entities um which
use this localizable fallback um entity.
This is the
oops one second let me refresh what's
that
yeah this is the main entity for all
localizable fallback values and actually
a short description long description is
recorded uh using this entity
uh uh using this entity
we have some uh localization helper uh
to get values for the uh for the
for the enabled localization I think uh
we have already checked it in
localization while talking about
localization per different websites but
let's pick up so this is ah yeah I was
demonstrating the service localization
help helper um
yeah it provides what kind of uh current
localization is enabled all localization
and getting u localized value. Uh so um
so if we are talking about for instance
uh product description so um the
collection of all u localizable uh
product description are passed here and
based on either specific uh localization
that is passed the value is uh is
provided
and uh get fullback value. This is in
the fallback trade.
Okay.
Uh product images, three types of
images. Main, listing, and additional
main. This is the one listing. This is
the one.
Oops.
Yeah, you see that they are different
because we specified them differently in
a in a back office.
Um
those images which are uh stored uh per
the uh products uh they are handled by
the separate bundle which is uh
responsible for all uh attachments we
have uh in the system. This is u
attachment bundle which is built on top
of u this one li image bundle. We can
have uh we can specify
watermarks for the uh for the images and
they are available under system
configuration product images. By the way
there are not only watermarks uh options
u the settings. So here we can choose a
file to be as a watermark for all the
villages. Uh specify the size of it and
the position where to uh to present it.
Uh by u
by the way whenever we are introducing
u product
some product image changes the
especially this one introducing a
watermark for the images. the images uh
then for the products will be like
recalculated or repreprepared uh based
on this uh watermark. So if you have
like plenty of images in the system, so
it might take some time but it will be
handled in a as a background job uh to
to prepare this u this images with the
watermarks and we have the ability to uh
enable image preview on a product
listing page and specify either to use
pop-up gallery uh on product preview or
not. So if I disable
uh pop-up gallery on product view. So if
I go to the product view,
we do not have this popup uh anymore
which we've seen before.
And similar
we can enable some preview on the
listing page.
I have reverted my changes and let's
continue.
Okay, this is a configuration for
images. Uh so we have u like u having
different types of images also uh means
that uh these images like they are
stored in a database. On the other hand
side, they should be like prepared with
the proper uh dimensions uh uh for using
on different application pages. And
actually this configuration for the uh
default theme it lists uh the types of
images we have uh in a system like main
listing and additional uh the label for
those uh for those types and uh in what
uh dimensions it could be uh this uh
image um this image could be used and
the dimensions are listed uh here for
instance for the product gallery uh
popup up. We should have the image width
and height equal to 710.
And uh whether we are able to we whether
we allow to apply product uh watermarks
the one we've seen in the configuration
or not. Uh so having uh this dimensions
and having uh types then uh the images
according to those dimensions and types
are generated and provided depending on
a uh
on the page you are using. Uh, of course
uh you can extend this list with your uh
some additional type you would like to
your image to have uh for sliders for
instance and specify in what dimensions
u this uh new type of image should be
then use it in your uh in your
application
and two things are responsible for
product images uh not two things two
entities this is product image U entity
which is pretty easy one. Uh
uh it has a reference to the product to
the type uh even a collection of types
and and that's it updated. This is and
the type.
So this is something you would need to
refer if you would like to introduce new
type uh not only list and main and
additional just added additional record
for the uh product image type entity
let's continue
uh product units
okay product units I was demonstrating
here uh this is the section for product
units
uh remember I have specified that this
product is is the main unit is item and
also I am able to sell this unit in um
in sets. So and having uh this setup I
have both unit of u quantity available
here. So now if I disable uh cell uh
make it not sellable uh sets save the
changes
it will mean that I am not allowing to
uh to sell in sets and this uh set uh
unit will be simply used for some
internal purposes in some back office uh
logic maybe perform some computations.
It depends on your on your needs.
Um
in some cases uh uh websites are running
uh products uh using single uh unit of
quantity and um just for instance in in
items only right. Uh for that uh we
should have uh single no product unit
product unit for that we can enable uh
this mode uh uh single unit mode and you
will have uh just one single use just to
to make it uh
simple
and for representation for instance no
then this item will not be listed here.
uh because all of them are sell in in
items. So it depends. So in some cases
this option is u enabled and
uh website is not loaded with additional
units.
Okay. And these are product units. Let's
check what we have here. product unit
entity
which
um saves the code and some uh default uh
precision. So number of digits after
after comma
and product unit precision. Yeah, that's
clear.
Okay, let's switch to more interesting
topic is product families.
Uh so product families uh they uh kind
of uh group uh uh products uh which has
some common uh attributes.
Uh so we imagine um here is
a good example. So imagine we are
selling TVs and selling t-shirts. Uh so
on one uh from one hand side both of
them has like name and vendor common
attributes while resolution and matrix
they are
they
should be available only for the TVs
while for the t-shirts uh t-shirts
should have size and color
uh and uh so then we should like group u
attributes uh for the t-shirts under
let's say t-shirt shirts uh attributes
have this set of attributes
uh while TVs will be grouped under
another family uh TVs.
Uh let's check what we have in a back
office related to this part. So we have
products and here product families.
So here we have like two product
families. One is from global
configuration
and another one from the uh not global
global organization sorry uh because I
am using enterprise edition and another
is the uh default system. No this one
pick up.
Okay. So this is a default family. I
have the one and it lists
it simply groups uh some attributes um
uh under the groups uh the general one
contains SKU name inventory contains
single attribute like u image uh group
contains only images and some uh such
engine optimization u attributes they
contain contains these attributes.
Okay. So this is how uh yeah and we can
actually add here
uh some additional attributes like color
which I've just created uh before
uh
and attributes itself they are listed uh
uh product attributes. So we have a
product uh we have like predefined set
of attributes like name uh images SKU
and we can create uh an attribute
another attribute we would like to have
we are selling uh t-shirts we would like
to need to have a size attribute
and we may see that u there is a bunch
of
types u
product uh attribute
uh could have like it could have like a
simple uh types of simple types like
date uh some string text or select or
multi select and it could have could be
a relation to other entities either many
to many or many to one
yeah
one second let me go actually to one of
the created
color this is the one I've just created
uh before. So this is of select type. Uh
depending on a attribute you may have
for the select you would need to specify
uh what kind of uh options uh this
select field uh may own. Here I have
created two of them but we can add more.
Uh we can specify some front end options
for the attribute uh which means those
which are which will be which should be
available for the for the front end uh
storefront part of application.
um like searchable whether we would like
uh while searching white uh whether we
would like to
pick up uh white uh as a token and match
uh our
product which uh has this uh color
white. uh filterable mean whether it
will be available
uh for filtering on the product listing
page.
Uh let me demonstrate it here.
Okay. So we have these options u these
attributes enabled for filtering by SKU
by name introducing you. You may decide
whether you would like to filter by by
color or by size or not. Uh then uh
whenever we are filtering whether we
would like to filter by exact match or
full text search match uh match uh
whether we would like to have it
sortable or not. Uh this means here with
right now we have SKU is a sortable
attribute name as a sortable and price
uh introducing color maybe we would like
to have it sortable or not and uh
actually these are related to
providing u boosting um uh products
based on the attribute in search results
that's uh not focus on it and some back
office things like u exposing to the
additive form in the back office to the
grid and so on.
Okay, let's uh
uh let's let's
let me check here. So okay, we have a
family which groups u an attributes
uh and we have an attribute um
we have an attribute with different
options uh for the storefront.
Let me check here.
Yeah, this is some
user guide.
Okay, this is something I've already
demonstrated.
product attributes. Here is the list of
them. And yeah, by the way, um here we
have a reference to what uh product
family it belongs. Um so imagine we have
a brand which should belong belong to
all uh product families. We have it will
they will be listed here while color for
instance should belong only to the
t-shirts. It will be listed here.
And
and now let's um switch to configurable
products and I will uh actually
demonstrate uh how they should be
created um how they could be created and
how they uh look u in a storefront.
Uh so we have a simple product which is
uh uh product of single variant
uh while configurable it could be in
different variations. Uh
let me uh let's go quickly.
There are no uh configurable products uh
in within a demo data. We will create
them quickly. Okay. So use one of the
those that we've just created. Okay, we
have this test product
edit.
Okay, I will specify it um
let's name it um okay be uh white. Okay.
And I will save the changes
and I will duplicate uh the product
just for to speed up. So I have I have
duplicated let it be test
uh test two
but it will be not white but black uh
product
and I will add uh some other images for
this product this one
and
let's just single
Okay. So I have created and I will
enable it. Uh save and change. So we
have two simple products of different
variants. U one variant is uh
of color black.
another one
of color white and they have like
different SKUs um
as unique identifiers.
Um
let's check whether they available both
of them in a storefront
test.
Yeah, both of them are available. This
one and this one. Okay, we have two
simple products. Now, let's create a
configurable product which will be based
on these two products we have just
created.
Uh I will go to products, create product
and choose the type not uh simple but
configurable. I will pick up the sim.
Continue.
Okay. Now as I am created uh creating a
configurable product, I am able to
specify what kind of configurable
attributes
uh I should uh uh I should have for this
uh for this product for this
configurable product and uh uh
configurable attributes
uh which I which will be listed here. uh
you need first of all to have them
created to have them uh uh in a back
office created beforehand. Uh I've just
created beforehand a color configurable
attribute. So it could be configured it
could be like u as it is a select field.
U we can then specify different options
per uh different values for this u for
this attribute. Another configurable
attribute could be multi select or uh
boolean uh field or integer field.
Yeah. And uh so I will pick up this one.
So if you had more and by the way u
those uh configurable attributes they
should be uh then added to the uh same
uh product family I am creating uh
configurable product core. So I have
added let's pick go here quickly.
So I have a configurable attribute
select.
This is uh requirement number one to
have configurable attribute. Requirement
number two to assign this uh
configurable attribute to the family in
which I will be creating uh products
variants and configurable and I have uh
accomplished this requirement by
assigning uh color configurable
attribute to the uh default product
family. Uh this is option number two or
requirement number two. Then while then
I should have two configurable products
created and I have achieved this. I have
created uh uh sorry two variants uh
which are using u configurable attribute
created. So I have created test product
one with a color white and test product
two with a color black. Now I am
creating a configurable product. I am
specifying what kind of configurable
attribute I would like to use. color and
with that
it gives me an ability to specify
product varants uh which has color uh
attribute and I will pick up both of
them. I will save the changes. Uh one
second I will put it just simply test
and make it enabled.
So now I have two variants test one and
test two which are using one common uh
attribute color. Uh in one case this is
of color uh white and another color uh
black and all of them they are uh
aggregated or combined under one uh
configurable product. Let's check u how
it looks in a back office sorry in a
storefront.
Okay, I will search for the
uh for the test again and see the
results. And now you see the difference.
So before that we have listed uh both um
two uh simple products test one and test
two. Now we have one configurable
product which u uh which simply uh has
variations uh of simple products. Let's
see the details. So, and here is the
configurable product uh test the one we
just created. And here I am able to
specify of what kind of variation uh I
would like this product to purchase.
Either I would like to purchase black or
white and depending on selected this
form is refreshed to represent uh actual
prices because we are not uh not using
prices here.
um it doesn't change anything. Okay. So,
we have
this black uh and white uh
variations of the configurable products.
And now let's uh let me switch back to
the slides.
And uh so what do we have? Uh we should
have uh products with multiple custom
variations. That's what we achieved. We
have u we have products of different
colors. Uh
yeah and they are grouped under
configurable uh product and we have uh
followed the prerequisites.
uh we have created an attribute assigned
it to the product family and then we
were able to pick up product varants for
the configurable.
And in the system configuration we have
a couple of uh settings by which we can
configure how the configurable product
should look like in a storefront
configuration.
Okay. So under commerce product
configurable products
uh there is a couple of them especially
they uh uh define uh how we should uh
how we should
present u the variance uh for selecting
u on the on the configurable product. So
by default we have this uh
one second I will reload inline inline
matrix form. So we are defining products
uh variance using inline form. Now I
will change for the product view I will
change uh no matrix form and for the
listing I will change uh popup matrix
one. Let's see. Save the changes.
[Music]
Okay. So here I will refresh the page.
One second.
So what was uh let me check here. test
products or test view details.
Uh,
okay. Have I saved? I do have, right?
That's
um
why I don't uh why I didn't see the
changes. Uh okay, let me pick up.
Okay,
configuration is saved. pop matrix form
why I don't see the difference.
So I should have the difference in
details.
Okay,
I will check later. Let's let me
demonstrate the difference
here.
That's not it.
This one
I will check why it is not working. So
if we have uh no matrix form uh we
should have like this kind of view when
this is inline um instead of uh
selecting uh items in a using this u
select fields we have this uh matrix
form and putting uh the quantity in each
cell you are specifying of what uh
quantity you are of which which
variation of what quantity you are you
would like to uh to purchase and within
a popup u there will be for selecting uh
the
products and quantity you would like to
purchase you will have a popup instead
of this uh table or this uh uh select
fields so these are the difference and
they are reflected on both that is what
I wanted to demonstrate
on both u product uh details page like
this one and on the product listing
page. So no matrix look like this uh
inline matrix form like this one and pop
up this uh let me check I will check
maybe a bit later. What kind of
it should work uh pretty good. I don't
know. Uh one second. So we have set up
maybe I have missed something. Popup
matrix. Okay.
Okay.
Do I have the I have it running?
They should see the changes immediately.
Test
I am not able to purchase for the being
not registered.
Amen.
Okay, I will check in a moment. Let's
continue for now.
[Music]
Let's continue.
Yeah. What is relevant for this? So uh
for this part for the configurable we
have variations
uh depending on a product attribute uh
which can have variation. We assign uh
this attribute which might have
variations to the configurable product
and then we have picked up uh variants
of the configurable products and it
helps then to combine uh all those
products uh and list under uh one single
uh one single product. And by the way
does it this part works uh simply
variation everywhere hide from catalog
and search.
[Music]
We have an option to specify whether
variations should be visible in a
storefront or not. And uh so remember
before uh we created configurable we do
see uh we have seen uh both u simple uh
products in a uh list and page. Uh after
we create it and as this option is
specified that we are hiding completely
we are hiding uh varants everywhere and
uh hide from the catalog and search.
Let's check
it works.
Okay, I will test. Mhm.
I will pick up.
Okay, I will check why matrix form is
not working. But it should be there is
no no rocket science with it. Should be
Okay, I will check. Let's continue.
We have uh we have checked how this um
type could be configured, how created.
Now let's switch to product kit. Product
kit if I'm not mistaken it should be it
should exist in a in a storefront. So it
uh simply um
lists uh or aggregates the items which
are usually uh purchased together.
Imagine you are uh introducing a new
office and you would like to purchase uh
furniture for this uh for for this off
for the office you are just opening. Uh
and usually when the office is uh
opening, you would need to purchase a
table, a bookshelf, some uh
uh workstation. And for that for you not
to for your convenience not to go and
pick up all those products uh from the
listing page. You might may introduce a
product kit which will contain all those
items that are usually purchased when
you are uh purchasing when you are
opening a new office and uh uh those
products are purchased together. Okay,
let's go to products. uh
this one.
So it was created beforehand and uh it
is of type product kit uh kit uh this is
the type and it lists uh under uh kit
items. So it has actually uh the same or
similar uh properties like simple
products has or configurable products
has and to the other hand side it has
kit items uh section which lists what
kind of items are uh purchased u or
suggested uh for the this touchscreen
post system. Let's uh go to
and pick up. So uh it contains the
following sections like base unit. Uh uh
as a base unit, you would need to pick
up touchscreen uh 15 in or 17 in this
terminal. Uh for the barcoder, you are
able to pick up one of this um items.
For the u receipt uh printer, another
one is provided. And for as additional
options, you would be able to select
some additional C uh c card readers.
Okay, let's check how this is configured
using edit form.
So here is u the configuration. You can
uh first of all specify the sort order
for the uh for the group uh kit group.
You can uh specify what should be the
maximum and minimum quantity allowing or
disallowing to purchase more than uh the
maximum or minimum quantity specified
here.
uh like uh this one uh optional
uh you see that additional card reader
it has some minimum quantity equal to
one while maximum quantity is not
specified and uh what else is um
[Music]
useful
I guess that's it yeah and whether this
is an optional actually item or not so
you should you force to specify the
quantity for the uh or pick up one of
the uh uh products here or not. U but it
could be just optional and user knows
should not uh uh pick up. It's up to
user to decide to pick up a note. Let's
check in a
in a back office how this product kit uh
is presented.
So in the search results we have uh the
image of the of the product some uh
description product name and SKU and uh
there is no option to select to pick up
uh and add uh products to the cart. For
that you would need to go to the product
details page and product details page uh
it has
the same information as for the simple
product like u um listing the long
description of the products but uh for
picking up you would need to go to this
uh popup window and specify uh what kind
of uh
items you are purch. chasing within this
touchscreen post uh system. As you may
notice here, selecting the base unit
does not allow me to specify the the
quantity
uh because I um it is restricted to
purchase just single item of base unit
um while and similar for the barcode
scanner while for the uh card reader I
am able to to pick up any card reader
and let's say I would like to have 10 10
of them uh added and
receipt printer it is an optional I it's
up to me to decide either to pick the
one that is suggested or have none
listed here and so I while I have
selected those which I would like to
purchase I am adding them to the
shopping list
then they are listed in a shopping list
and they are listed a bit different
um so if I add let's add just uh to to
demonstrate the difference I will add
this one.
Uh so here is the the simple product I
have added to the shopping list. It is
listed as a single item while uh product
kit as uh is listed as a set of products
and there is no ability to
change the quantity for the uh for the
product kit items here. Yeah. And it
forces me to uh purchase the whole um
kit all those items together. Yeah.
That's that's the difference. In some
cases, it is called bundled bundled
products like that.
Uh by default uh this uh kits uh uh type
of products they are disabled but you
can enable it using u uh application
configuration. So here we have an
application configuration under product
product types. By default we have simple
configurable. If you would like to
enable kits um then just add here
to the product uh to the available
product types.
Okay. And the last thing I suppose we
will uh cover today is related to u how
we can uh
uh how we can import
product related data to the to the
system. Uh so that for that we have uh
product uh import functionality which
covers um importing uh product entities,
importing product images uh also related
products. Uh this is something uh which
is used for
uh one second let me close all these
parts
like here related products uh the the
relation between uh main product and uh
and some related products
uh
and also to import product attributes. I
will check I will demonstrate
And so if you go to products
and go to import, we have different tabs
for importing products. This is the tab
for product im images. Uh another one
with another template. And by the way,
you would need to have a uh to make sure
that uh the uh import uh folder folder
for the products is u set up properly.
And u actually uh application has
permissions to to read the data from
there. Um this is the the section which
is uh responsible for importing related
products price attributes. This is
something related to prices and what I
also mentioned is about uh importing
product attributes. So you can create
them one by one manually using create
attribute
or you can simply import input them um
just a whole list specifying in what
family they uh to what product family
they belong um of what type
and so on.
This is also done for your convenience.
At this uh moment I would stop. Um I
will cover the master catalog tomorrow
uh together with the uh with the web
catalog. Maybe it will be more even more
useful. I will also check uh why um in
my case uh this configuration was not
working uh for the matrix form uh for
the configurable. That's really looks
weird. Maybe I I missed something but I
will check that offline.
Okay. And uh so now let's switch to
questions and answers. We have like 12
minutes more.
And uh so the first question can we
create custom flags?
I suppose you are referring to the flags
uh which I was demonstrating here.
Product uh create product uh no
I will pick up uh
custom flex I when I was talking about
product I mentioned about this flag is
featured new arrival. Um these are flex
for filtering uh products and preparing
some segments of products. Yes, you can
uh uh so all the entities not all the
entities but uh most of the entities um
in Orocommerce they are extendable
entities which gives you the ability to
create uh uh fields uh to extend them
with additional fields and this could be
actually performed u using
u schema migration u in code there are
like migrations u mig ation files in
which you define what uh entity you
would like to extend with what uh field
you would like to extend and uh what
kind of options this field should have
like type uh should it be visible in a
data grid uh and so on and so on. So yes
you are able to create uhhuh and the
other thing is you can create uh
attributes not attributes but fields uh
using entity management. So we have
entities. So here is a list of entities
and you may see what kind of entities
are extendable. We can pick up any
entity. This is actually accepted not
only for
the products but also for the for other
entities we were
um like this one customer.
Imagine I would like to have some
additional flag or field for the
customer. Uh and you can uh create field
specify the the type
the storage type the field name and
create both customer product
uh customer user and so on.
In general a recommendation u better to
create uh these fields u extend entities
with the fields you uh migration uh from
code with that you will have the same um
the same state uh on all the entities uh
oh sorry on all the environments u uh
where you have your application running
on the dev uh on your local instance
sharing your code with other developers
you will have the same uh uh fields and
same state. Okay. The next question, can
we add videos uh to gallery? Uh so you
are able to add attachments uh to the
no attachments and the videos I guess
you u mentioned some maybe
uh YouTube videos. uh to what I remember
this is not achieved uh out of the box
but actually this is not but um there
are several extensions I faced which
should handle this uh this thing
[Music]
extension
what this is a usual uh thing that is
customized
products.
Okay. So, here is a list of uh
you go to here.
I will check it here. So a list of
available uh publicly available uh
extensions uh related to the IM
filtering for the products and um you
may find maybe something is uh would be
useful for you like this content
generation
and other stuff and u here we have uh
YouTube video support it is listed as
for 3.1 maybe it could be reused maybe
Uh
this is something that you were
referring to while asking.
Oh, maybe it could be reused. Who knows?
But actually out of the box, no. But
usually this is customized uh through
the extensions or through the through
your code.
Okay. Can we attach to product files to
download? Yeah, sure. Mhm. Same for
customers. Example, we need to attach
certificates to customer. Can we add
field uh file? Yes, you are able to add
feed file um
field with the type file and uh let me
check.
Um
so products already have this
attachments. uh
attachments
but these are attachments for the
related entity for the activities. Uh
yeah, you would need to to add a field
um
uh attribute to add an attribute
with the type uh file here and u maybe
it will be some PDF, some certificates
uh specify of what uh by the way okay
document
continue
of what uh
type it should be of what size of what
type uh the file should be. Yeah. And it
will be then available specify whether
it should be available for the front end
or not like this one added to the some
specific attribute group and it will be
there and same could be performed for
the for any other extendable entities.
Uh can we add uh custom attributes to
customers? Yes, we can. Uh so I have
demonstrated using management entity
management or but I recommend to use uh
migrations in uh code.
Okay, let's quickly for instance
migrations schema
just as an example. So here we have in
your customization in your uh bundle you
will have u you would need to specify a
migr to add a migrations folder under
schema. This is the folder which is
responsible for database schema changes.
And here under some version
you are specifying what kind of changes
you would like to perform uh like for
this uh
creating additional entity or changing
uh changing the existing entity adding
some uh uh some relation. So in this
case you see that we are adding some
image relation to the to one of the
tables and specifying the options and
you may pick up the examples from code
uh from from code
here for the customer entity.
uh plenty of migrations
removing some fields changing and and so
on.
Okay, the next question is there any
product type where non-variance can be a
child product in the grid view for
configurable products? Thinking about
magenta grouped products as an example.
Sorry, I am not uh really aware about
magenta grouped products, but let me
quickly is there any product type where
non-variants can be a child product in
the grid view
or configurable?
Yeah. So
similar to how you could have a number
of not necessarily related SKs um like
you had in the kit
but it would show up as the grid view
where you had with configurable products
I see no so and in your and for this
case product kit will not work uh in
this case you in the question that you
listed
correct because the kit requires let's
say all three or four different types of
you know options to be added whereas
here I would want to give the you know
five of this four of this none of the
other one something like that um in a
grid view with numbers of the the amount
of quantity to be added
but um remember for the product kit we
have this uh uh we do not have this we
can specify either we would like to
restrict of what quantity should be
purchased so imagine we have like a kit
with the list of uh with the main uh
with some main section uh and we are
listing only simple u simply listing
products and not u limiting of uh how
many items should be uh but you I've got
you you would like to yeah yeah u yeah I
recollected there is there was a some
talking about introducing this
additional type of uh products uh that
was mentioned and while introducing
product kits. Yeah, I got your idea. So,
right now this is not available but this
is something that was I would I will
pick up the the notes from the product
kit demonstration and it was mentioned
that for the next year there is a plans
to have such type of product.
Thank you.
Um is there the next question is there
any advantage to using a product
attribute versus adding a product field?
So uh for the product field this is um
it could be treated as uh some let's say
uh product property which should not be
exposed to the uh to the uh storefront.
I would describe it this way but just
some internal he for rating for for
internal back office usage only. While
if you have uh
something that should be exposed to the
storefront to make it filterable,
searchable
um to be visible in a storefront then
use attributes.
attributes they contains uh more options
to be uh than fields uh to be set up.
Okay, so we have finished with the
questions.
We are
out of time. Uh let me check one thing
uh before we
uh disconnect.
Okay. So I have an exercise but it will
be relevant for the uh when we finish
with the uh master uh catalog. Uh so
okay for now uh let's finish with the
day one just short summary
of these days. We've checked how website
looks like and storefront part of the
orcommerce application looks like. We
have checked how we can uh introduce
more sites, more websites and how they
could be configured. U especially that
part related to the um layouts and
themes to per to
uh introduce um um some specific user
experience. UI
for the end users. Then we started to
talk from those entities which are uh
which take
place in a uh purchase process and
started with a customer uh related
entities like customer customer users
groups and roles and then switch to
those things which are actually
purchased and this are products and of
what kind of uh types uh uh These
products could be in orcommerce.
Tomorrow we plan to uh continue with the
products in terms of categorizing them
especially using master cat u catalog.
Then we will uh check u uh what is uh
the web catalog and what is the
difference with the master catalog how
it could be used. then switch to pricing
and pricing related uh stuff like
promotions and discounts.
Uh so today I will also uh share with
you using email uh in the invitation uh
share PDFs that we've uh went through
today and let's meet tomorrow uh for day
two. Thank you. Thank you for being
active, for asking questions. It took a
bit more time. Uh uh yeah, but I hope
that you received some useful
information related to this topics.
Thank you so much guys and see you
tomorrow.
Thanks. Thanks everyone. Thank you.
Thank you. Bye.
Here.
Thanks everyone.